I'm looking to pick up my first bow for Olympic-style recurve, and I'm curious what people recommend.

I've heard the WNS Quantum AX and Vantage AX pretty highly recommended, but I don't know how they compare. The Quantum I think is the newer replacement for the Vantage, yet seems to be selling for a slightly lower price. Anyone know what the difference is?

I've also been recommended Hoyt's RCRV series and the Kinetic Valenz, but I'm thinking if I spend a little more maybe I can get something more intermediate level for future use and flexibility. The Fivics Vellator piqued my interest too, but again I'm confused what's the difference between V2 and V3. Any advice appreciated!
__
The weight of your setup is important when you are learning how to set your bow arm.

The Vellator V2 is lighter than the V3 and most of the others you mentioned. I'd recommend it as a first riser simply due to the weight. It also looks sexy as hell.

Th RCRV Podium is close in weight.
__

The Valenz is bad. I know three people that have shot it long term and they’ve all had problems. Two replaced it. One just fights with it.

The Vellator V3 is the coolest looking riser Fivics has ever made. Functionally, it’s not any different from the V2 other than weight. They both have excellent stock grips.

The RCRV and WNS AX risers are both very good choices. I would prefer the WNS options, personally.
__

WNS is the budget brand of Win&Win. They can't afford to ship a bad riser. As with all budget items the lower the price gets the more corners are cut.

But as long as you get a riser from a good retailer changes of a bad riser are slim and when it does happen the retailer should help you out.

For reference I started with a Core Astral riser. That is a basic riser but the finish is really nice. Currently use a WNS Vantage AX, which was the top model at that time. My daughter uses a Liberate DX. A entry level model which also is nicely finish.
__
You may run into some issues when using a sight. Short risers have short sight windows, which means the sight pin may disappear behind the riser when shooting short distances.

I'd go with either a 23" riser or 25" riser instead. With short limbs, a 25" riser will give you a 66" bow, which should work okay. For reference: I'm barely an inch taller than you and have always shot 68" bows.

If you're worried about the weight of the riser, look into the Fivics/Krossen Xenia. It's the lightest 25" Oly riser on the market. Both the weight and the low price make it an excellent option for beginners.
__
My wife is 5’ 1” tall and shoots a 25” riser with medium limbs (Olympic Recurve). Unless you have a very prominent nose, you will want to go with a longer setup so you can get all three anchor points comfortably (chin, lips, nose).
__I don't know how tall you are, but 21" riser and short limbs seems like a very short setup. Typical olympic recurve risers are 23", 25" or 27" depending on your drawlength, most people have a 25" or 23", 27" are typically not available in an entry level price range.

Do you know your drawlength? If not, measure your armspan and divide it by 2.5, that gives you a rough estimate of your drawlength. Also, I don't know how old you are, but if you're still growing, take into account your drawlength will still increase over time, and significantly so, it'll increase somewhat at the beginning as well as your technique improves.

At 28", the standard drawlength, most use a 68" setup, most often 25" riser with 68" limbs. I have a rather long drawlength at 30.5", I currently have a 70" setup (27" riser, 68" limbs) which I will change to a 72" in the future. But if you're within the 27" to 29" drawlength range, I'd say go for a 25" riser with 68" limbs. In the end it comes down to preference though, people shoot longer or shorter limbs and/or risers for a variety of reasons.

I used to have a 66" bow (same limbs, 23" riser) I had bought when I was 14 or so, when I got back into archery it was way to short for me and it resulted in the string pushing my fingers together, I switched to a 27" riser and the finger pinching is much better now. This is an example of why not to get a bow that's too short for you, which is why I would reccomend against the 21" riser and 66" limbs unless you have a 23-24 inch drawlength or something rather short.
__
Well, if you want a WNS, the one you chose should be available in a 25" version, at least it is in my usual store, but for a bit (€50 more on the store I buy from) more you have the wns liverate dx, I haven't used any of these risers, but WNS is a reputable brand so they should be fine.

I'd take the Liverate dx, it looks a bit more modern than the cheaper explore I think, it's also aluminium, the very cheapest risers, a lot of the time, are made from a magnesium alloy, aluminium is just better, stronger etc.

Tbh, as long as the riser has sight mounting holes, a clicker mounting hole, spot for your plunger button and a front stabilizer bushing you should be good for a while.

But if you get a decent riser, you could use it forever if you wanted, if it's a really cheap one, you will want to replace it sooner or later because you've come to know what it lacks, guess where I learned that lmao.
__
You will need a longer riser. I'd recommend a Krossen Xenia.

I'd also recommend getting a stick on rest. The WNS S-RE is a good choice.

The WNS S-AT is a better bowstand.

You might also prefer a target quiver over a field quiver. The target quiver puts the arrows where you can see them.
__
The Avalon tabs are great for beginners. Above 30lbs, the leather is too thin for many, but it works great with lower draw weights. Plus, consider this your first tab, not your forever tab. You probably don't know what you like in a tab yet, so a very adjustable one like the Avalon is great for figuring that out.
