Looking at bows (although will do a few more weeks on the bows provided by the club) and thinking of going the route of investing in a decent riser and being able to swap out cheap limbs as I (hopefully) progress.

My question is how I make a decision on what a ‘decent’ riser is? I don’t have much knowledge around brands but I know even less about what someone would expect to pay for a decent quality riser (but not insanely expensive) that will be the main component of an upgradeable set-up.

Also happy to hear advice on other routes e.g., that it’d be better to start with a ‘full-package’ takedown bow like the Samick Sage.

For context I am in London. One week away from completing a five-week beginner course. Leaning towards staying with sights or having the option to go from barebow to sights.

Comments;
What is your Budget?
If you go over 300€, it doesn't really matter anymore. All risers starting at that pricerange are a good pick for intermediate and up. And while they feel different, I doubt most archers can really feel if a riser is high quality or low. So my general suggestion is to go for one that looks good to you. If you are under 300€, you need to look a bit more into them and I personally would not go below 150€, since the riser is really something you can spend money once, and then never need to do it again.

The main difference here is production method or material. Carbon risers are expensive to make and therefore not in the lower budget.

Cast magnesium is not as strong and often has a draw limit of around 40#. While there are exceptions, you should take a look at the specs for them.

Cast aluminum is generally stronger than magnesium, but after a certain price point you will only find machined risers.

If you only shoot a wooden club bow, be prepared that the new riser will weight a decent amount more.

Generally, get an ILF riser and consider renting a bow first. If you are unsure, just get a normal target bow riser, they can work with or without sight, but some of the barebow risers, do not have holes to screw a sight in, limiting your options.

Speak with people in your club, or at tournaments. If you know them well enough they will likely let you shoot their bow (if you can pull them that is).
__
most importantly get an ILF compatible riser. as for brand; i'm assuming you intend on shooting olympic recurve, in which case hoyt, WNS, W&W are probably the major brands to look at.

best thing you can do is visit your local pro shop & have a talk to their staff. Don't buy gear online as you're way too new to archery to know what you're buying. You're also going to need a set of correctly spined arrows to go with your bow & it's probably best you get the shop staff to help you with this setup; as nothing sucks more than shooting arrows way out of spine to your draw weight.
__
If you can get down to Quicks in waterlooville (not too far from London) book a session and you can try out a number of bows, and they will set it all up for you. Friend went recently, no real budget but actually liked the feel of a fairly entry/mid level riser the best (kinetic vygo), and they didn't try and upsell him.

I'm still using rental kit, but I'm going to head down there when I'm ready to buy something.
__

It sound like you are inspired by Olympic recurve and possibly barebow. They both use the same basic riser. Barebow is a bit easier and cheaper to get into and you can then move to Olympic from there.

For a decent riser, take something in the middle of the price range. I started with a $350 riser, a Hoyt Xakt. However, companies like Kinetic offer really nice risers at a good price.

To be honest, when starting out, there is very little experience where you can make a choice. People will simply be suggesting what they know. If you buy from a major riser manufacturer, you will get a very competent riser: they are not complex things. My advice is chose what appeals to you in the color you like. This is most likely not your first bow.