A T
RROW UNING AND
M G
AINTENANCE UIDE
The Complete Archer(cid:213)s Resource 2nd Edition $2.50
Choose Your Shooting Style.
Tuning
Tuning procedures for the three most popular shooting
This section includes step-by-step tuning procedures setups are described and abbreviated throughout the
for obtaining optimum performance and accuracy from manual as follows:
your bow and arrow setup. Also included are equip- u recurve bows, using finger release (RF)
ment setup tips, and suggested solutions to most bow u compound bows, using finger release (CF)
tuning problems. u compound bows, using a release aid (CR)
Subject Page You will notice that some of the techniques of bow tuning
apply to all types of bow setups and others apply to just
Preliminary Bow Setup..............................................1
one or two types. When separate tuning procedures are
Standard Tuning Methods
required for specific setups, find your setup within the
Bare Shaft Planing Test ......................................4
topic and follow those specialized instructions.
Paper Tuning Arrow Test...................................6
Install All Accessories
Short Distance Fine Tuning Test.......................8
Trouble-Shooting Arrow Groups......................8 Before you start any bow tuning procedures, be sure to
Bow & Arrow Adjustments..............................10 install all accessories on your bow, i.e., the correct
Broadhead Tuning ............................................11 bowstring, bow sight, stabilizers, arrow rest, cushion
plunger, etc. In other words, install all the items you
Fine Tuning...............................................................12
intend to use when shooting. Any adjustments made to
Micro Tuning............................................................14
the bow or changes in bow components can affect the
Maintenance & Assembly tune of your equipment. When tuning, it is very important
to change only one variable at a time!
This section provides instructions for properly cutting
shafts and installing components. Arrow maintenance
PRELIMINARY BOW SETUP
procedures are also included.
Subject Page
The first phase in achieving well tuned equipment is
Measuring and Cutting Shafts.................................15
good preliminary equipment setup. If the initial setup is
Aluminum Shaft Component Installation.............18 done correctly, bow tuning can be an easy process. By
Aluminum/Carbon Component Installation........20 following the bow setup guidelines in the initial prepara-
Carbon ICS Component Installation.....................23 tion of your equipment, you can eliminate most or all of
External Component Installation...........................24 the possible disturbances which cause tuning problems,
Installing Nock Systems...........................................26 including false tuning indicators. A false tuning indicator
Additional Information............................................30 would be having a high nocking point indication when
the problem is actually poor clearance.
Install the Nocking Point
INTRODUCTION TO TUNING
Install a moveable nocking point on the bowstring.
Clamp-on types are ideal. Initially, position the nocking
Successful tuning can only be achieved by using a point on the bowstring about 1/2" (1.3 cm) above square
properly spined arrow shaft. Initially, it is best to start for RF and CF and approximately 1/4" above square
with a shaft recommended by one of Easton’s Arrow (0.63 cm) for CR. See Fig. 1.
Shaft Selection Charts or by one of Easton’s computer
selection programs, the Arrow Flight Simulator or Fig. 1- Nocking Point Position
Shaft Selector (cid:210)Plus.(cid:211) Final verification is achieved
during the tuning process. Any problems due to an
1/2" RF, CF
improperly spined shaft will become evident during
1/4" CR
tuning. Before tuning be sure that shafts are straight,
are properly fletched, and have perfectly aligned 90(cid:176)
nocks (see pages 15 thru 30).
2
Arrow Tuning and Maintenance Guide
Find the Limb Centers
Aligning the Nodes
In order to have a reference point from which to adjust
the arrow’s left/right position on the bow, it is necessary Fig. 3 - Nodes
to find and mark the exact center of the limbs on a Arrow Nodes - As the arrow oscillates, the nodes remain in
recurve bow, or what is termed the (cid:210)balanced limb direct alignment to the target. This diagram clearly
illustrates the front and rear node positions of the arrow.
center(cid:211) on a compound bow.
The front node is usually closer to the front end of the
Recurve Bows arrow than the rear node is to the nock end. This is due to
the mass weight of the point(cid:209)nodes will always be located
To find the limb center for recurve bows, place a closer to the heavier mass.
piece of masking tape across the inside of each limb
a few inches from the riser. With an ink pen, make a Rear Node Front Node
small vertical mark on the tape in the exact center of Direct Line
each limb. to Target
Compound Bows Top View of Arrow
To find the balanced limb center location for the Fig. 4
preliminary setup of your compound bow, place a Finger Release (RF, CF)
piece of masking tape across the inside of each
limb a few inches from the riser. Accurately mea-
Line to target Line to target
sure the width of the limb (at the tape) and place a very
small pen (or pencil) mark on the tape in the exact center
of each limb. Next, measure 3/ " (4.8˚mm) to the left of
16
the mark (for right-handed archers) and make a larger
vertical mark on the tape. (Left-handed archers place a
larger mark 3/ " (4.8˚mm) to the right of the limb center
16
mark.) This second mark will be used for arrow center-
ing. (See Fig. 2.) This procedure is done to compensate When there is As the
for the amount the eccentric wheel or cam is offset from no pressure on cushion
the cushion plunger
the actual center of the limb. The 3/ " (4.8˚mm) measure-
16 plunger, the compresses,
ment is an average (cid:210)offset(cid:211) difference for most com- finger-released the nodes of
pound bows and does not need to be a precise measure- arrow is aligned the arrow
ment in the preliminary setup stage, as you will locate the slightly outside come in
the center of direct
true balanced limb center when performing the fine
the bowstring. alignment to
tuning procedures.
the target.
Fig. Compound Bow
2 Balanced Limb Wheel
Center Location Bow limb Fig. 5 Fig. 6
Compound Misaligned Arrow RF, CF, CR
Actual Tape Mechanical (Incorrect Arrow Rest Position)
limb center Release (CR)
(right mark) Bowstring
to target
Balanced Line to target
alignment
limb center Tape
(left mark) Rear node
Measured 3/16" position
Bow limb
from actual center
Front node
Wheel position
The arrow tip is The arrow is
(cid:210)Centering(cid:211) the Arrow aligned down the not positioned
center of the to leave the
The objective of arrow centering is to have the arrow bowstring. Nodes center of the
of the arrow are in bow(cid:209)it is out
leave the (cid:210)theoretical(cid:211) or (cid:210)balanced(cid:211) limb center of the
alignment to the too far. Nodes
bow. In actuality, it’s the two nodes of the arrow shaft that
target. (Since the are not in
should leave the center of the bow in direct alignment to arrow bends alignment to
the target. Releasing the string with fingers creates a vertically when the target.
horizontal bending motion within the arrow. Releasing using a release, the
nodes stay in
the string with a release aid causes a slight up/down
alignment down
bending motion instead. Because of this, the arrows must the center of the
be positioned differently for each style of release. (See bowstring.)
Node Alignment diagram to the right). A description of
these position adjustments follows.
3
Tuning(cid:209)Bow Setup
Adjust the Arrow’s Adjust the Arrow Rest
Left/Right Position (recurve and compound)
The arrow rest support arm position is critical to achiev-
Adjust the horizontal (in/out) position of the cushion
ing good arrow clearance.
plunger or arrow rest assembly so that the tip (center) of
the arrow point is correctly aligned with the type of With Finger Release (RF, CF)
equipment you shoot.
Most Flipper/Rest setups have an adjustable arm
With Finger Release (RF, CF) for the arrow rest. If this adjustment is available
on the rest you’re using, the arrow rest support arm
Align the (cid:210)tip(cid:211) of the arrow point 1/ " to 1/" (1.6-
16 8 should be adjusted so that it is not visible past the outside
3.2˚mm) or less outside the bowstring with the
of the arrow shaft when observed from an overhead view.
bowstring properly centered according to Fig. 7. The
See Fig. 8.
arrow tip is placed slightly outside the string to provide
compensation for the amount the cushion plunger or side With Mechanical Release (CR)
loading device compresses into the bow when the arrow
On launcher type rests, commonly used on
is released. See Fig. 4.
compound bows with release aids, be sure that
With a finger release, the arrow bends horizontally, first the arrow support arm is narrow enough to
bending in toward the bow, then bending away from the allow the two lower vanes to pass over the rest without
bow, which causes the arrow shaft to leave the arrow rest. making contact. (See the Fig. 9.) This is very important
In the next bending sequence, the arrow nock disengages for archers using release aids because the arrow is most
from the bowstring. The arrow is then on its way, freely often supported on the rest for its full length of forward
oscillating all the way to the target. The amount of travel. For the smaller diameter aluminum/carbon or
oscillation decreases as the arrow travels farther from the carbon shafts with less space between vanes, it may be
bow. necessary to significantly reduce the width of the launcher
blade.
With Mechanical Release (CR)
Align the (cid:210)tip(cid:211) of the arrow point down the
center of the bowstring. See Fig. 5. The center
line (axis) of the arrow must start out in a direct
line with the bowstring when the bowstring is aligned to
the balanced limb center. See Fig. 7.
When using a release, the arrow most often bends
vertically, rather than horizontally. Therefore, there is no
need to compensate for any inward compression of the
arrow rest or cushion plunger. Follow the bow tuning
methods in the Fine Tuning and Micro Tuning sections
on pages 12-14 to find the best in/out position for your
arrow shaft, which allows the arrow nodes to be in direct
alignment to the target.
The diagrams in Fig. 7 indicate the correct in/out arrow
position for your shooting style.
Recurve Bow Compound Bow Compound Bow
Finger Release Finger Release Mechanical
Release Aid
Fig. 9
Arrow Arrow Arrow Tip Arrow Rest - Back View, Vane Clearance (CR)
Tip Tip in line
with
bowstring
Nock Nock Nock
Bowstring aligned Bowstring aligned with
with limb center balanced limb center
WOB WOB
Fig. 8
Arrow Rest - Overhead View (RF, CF)
Correct Position Incorrect Position
(out too far)
Arrow rest Arrow rest
NOTE: NOTE:
Be sure enough Be sure that the
of the flipper arrow rest has
arm is extended enough height
to safely hold above the arrow
the arrow on the shelf to allow for
Fig. 7 - Arrow Centering rest. vane clearance.
Correct - Incorrect -
Good Vane Poor Vane
Clearance Clearance
4
Arrow Tuning and Maintenance Guide
Adjusting for Outsert Components (CR) specifications including length, type of material, type
When using carbon arrow shafts which have exter- and color of serving, etc.
nally fitted nocks, it may be necessary to adjust your
The brace height determines the specific point at which
nocking point up slightly to allow the nock to clear
the arrow separates from the bowstring and the amount
the arrow rest. The nock diameter is significantly
of bend the arrow has when the separation occurs. The
larger than the shaft diameter on these arrows. A slightly
best brace height for your recurve or compound bow is
higher nocking point lifts the arrow off of the arrow rest
one that allows the most compatible launch position for
and keeps the nock from coming in contact with it,
the arrow at the end of the bow(cid:213)s (cid:210)power stroke.(cid:211) Locating
eliminating a potential clearance problem.
the best brace height for your bow can significantly
Riser-Mounted Clickers (rf, cf) improve arrow grouping and shooting consistency.
Set the Brace Height
For clicker shooters, be sure that the arrow is well
supported on the rest and not held in place by the tension (Compound bows)
of the clicker only. It is important to draw the bow a few
Brace height is set by the compound bow manufac-
times without the clicker to make sure the arrow can be
turer. Sometimes changing the brace height to a
drawn and let down without the arrow falling off the
slightly higher or lower position will improve
arrow rest.
arrow flight and grouping. This can be accom-
Align the Bow-sight Pin plished by changing the length of the string, as
described previously for recurve bows. Remember, how-
Initially, set the sight pin on your bow sight over the
ever, that changing the brace height of a compound bow
centerline of the arrow shaft.
affects the draw weight and draw length of the bow.
Set the Cushion Plunger
Nock-to-Bowstring Tension
Not every type of bow setup uses a cushion plunger.
The nock tension ((cid:210)snap fit(cid:211)) necessary to separate the
Some archers use rests without a cushion plunger. For
nock from the bowstring serving can be very critical,
example, many tournament archers use a Springy“ rest,
especially on light draw-weight bows (30 lbs. and under).
and some traditional archers use other styles of arrow
Nock tension should be tight enough so the arrow can
rests that do not have side pressure tension adjustments.
easily support its own weight when the arrow is hanging
If your setup incorporates a cushion plunger, start with
vertically on the bowstring (nock against the nocking
the spring tension set at medium.
point). To check this, hang your arrow vertically from the
Set the Brace Height bowstring, and give the string a sharp tap with your finger
on the serving about 1-2" (2.5-5 cm) from the arrow nock.
(Recurve bows)
The arrow should separate from the string. If it does not,
Start with the brace height at the lower end of the
the nock is probably too tight for most target archery. For
manufacturer(cid:213)s recommendation or use the follow-
hunting, a slightly tighter nock-to-bowstring fit is often
ing chart. To locate the optimum brace height for
preferred.
your particular bow, (cid:210)twist up(cid:211) the bowstring to
make it shorter. This raises the brace height. STANDARD TUNING
METHODS
BOW LENGTH BEGINNING BRACE HEIGHT
64" 8 1/" - 8 1/" (21.0 cm - 21.6 cm)
4 2 Now that you have completed the preliminary
66" 8 3/" - 8 5/" (21.3 cm - 21.9 cm)
8 8 adjustments you can start the tuning process. Four
68" 8 1/" - 8 3/" (21.6 cm - 22.2 cm)
2 4 methods of bow tuning are described (pp. 4 thru 14) (cid:209)the
70" 8 5/" - 8 7/" (21.7 cm - 22.5 cm)
8 8 Bare Shaft Planing Test, the Paper Tuning Arrow Test,
Short Distance Tuning, and Broadhead Tuning.
All bows are different, even ones of the same make and Bare Shaft Planing Test
model. Therefore, it is important to locate a brace height
(Finger release - RF, CF)
that fits your particular bow and shooting style. Shoot a
few arrows at the suggested beginning brace height, then In addition to tuning, the bare shaft test is also
unstring the bow, add 3-4 twists to the bowstring and useful for determining if the correct shaft has
shoot again. Continue this process until the bow feels been selected. If the left/right adjustments out-
smoothest and quietest when shooting. lined under (cid:210)Fishtailing(cid:211) do not cause the unfletched
shafts to group with or very near the fletched shafts, then
If the bowstring is too short to allow a brace height at the a weaker or stiffer spined shaft (based on where the
lower setting, you may wish to use a slightly longer string. arrows have impacted) must be selected.
If the string is too long to allow a higher brace height (and Arrows that do not fly well and do not group tightly are
starts to knot-up from too many twists), you may wish to usually affected by one or more of the following prob-
try a slightly shorter bowstring. There are many custom lems:
bowstring makers who produce strings to your exact
5
Standard Tuning(cid:209)Bare Shaft Planing Test
1. They may PORPOISE in flight. Fishtailing
2. They may FISHTAIL in flight.
If the arrow leaves the bow with the nock end leaning to
3. They may not CLEAR the bow properly as the arrow
one side or the other, Fishtailing occurs. The nock end of
leaves the bowstring.
the arrow will appear to move from side to side as the
4. They may MINNOW in flight (a specific type of
arrow follows its flight path. See Fig. 11.
clearance problem).
Use the Bare Shaft Planing Test to correct Fishtailing.
Porpoising
Shoot three fletched shafts at a distance of 15 to 20 yards
It is important to correct for Porpoising first. If the arrow (meters), then shoot two identically-aimed, unfletched
leaves the bowstring with the nock too high or too low, shafts.
a motion known as Porpoising occurs. Porpoising is
If the unfletched shafts impact left (stiff) of the identically-
caused by an incorrect nocking point location. Use the
aimed, fletched shafts, as seen in Fig. 11 (for a right-
Bare Shaft Planing Test to find the correct nocking point
handed archer), either decrease the spring tension on the
location. Shoot at least three fletched shafts at a distance
cushion plunger, increase bow weight slightly (if your
of 15 to 20 yards (or meters). Then shoot two identically-
bow weight is adjustable), or increase arrow point weight.
aimed unfletched shafts. Once you get the bare shafts to
impact close to the fletched arrows at 20 yards (or If the unfletched shafts impact right (weak) of the
meters), you may want to try shooting 25-30 yards (or identically-aimed, fletched shafts, as seen in Fig. 11 (for
meters) for a finer tuning indication. a right-handed archer), increase the spring tension on the
cushion plunger, decrease bow weight slightly (if your
If the unfletched shafts impact above the identically-
bow weight is adjustable), or decrease arrow point weight.
aimed fletched shafts, move the nocking point up on the
bowstring until both fletched and unfletched shafts strike Your equipment is basically tuned when the bare shafts
at the same elevation. See Fig. 10. and fletched shafts impact at the same or very near the
same location. Once you have completed the finer tuning
If the unfletched shafts impact below the identically-
methods listed for Fine Tuning and Micro Tuning on
aimed fletched shafts, move the nocking point down on
pages 12-14, do not be surprised if the bare shaft impact
the bowstring until the unfletched shafts hit at the same
changes. It is common on a well-tuned bow to have the
elevation or slightly lower than the fletched shafts.*
bare shaft impact a little low and slightly stiff (to the left
To assure you have eliminated Porpoising, repeat the of the fletched shafts for a right-handed archer).
test, shooting first the fletched, then the unfletched shafts, Occasionally, a good tune may be achieved with the bare
and make adjustments to the nocking point until both shaft impacting slightly weak (to the right of the fletched
fletched and unfletched shafts impact at the same shafts for right-handed archers), but this is less common.
elevation.
When correcting Fishtailing using the Bare Shaft Planing
Test, you may have a problem adjusting the unfletched
Fig. 10 shaft’s impact to that of the fletched shaft. Your arrows
Porpoising might be too weak (the unfletched shaft impacts to the
right of the fletched shaft for right-handed archers) or too
stiff (the unfletched shaft impacts to the left of the fletched
shaft for right-handed archers). If, after completing this
test, the bare shaft impact is more than 6 inches (15 cm)
to the right (weak) or left (stiff) of the fletched shafts at 20
yards (18 m), you will need to make some modifications
to the equipment to achieve a better tune. Follow the
suggestions on how to better match the arrow to your
bow in the (cid:210)Adjustments Within the Bow and Arrow
System(cid:211) section on page 10.
Clearance
Proper clearance is absolutely essential for optimum
grouping, consistency and accuracy. This is especially
true with ultra-light weight arrows like the UltraLite
aluminum, the A/C/E and A/C/C HyperSpeed shafts.
After you have performed the Bare Shaft Planing or
Nocking point too low* Nocking point too high* Paper Tuning Arrow Test, it is a good idea to check for
adequate clearance. To check for clearance, use dry
powder foot spray, dry deodorant spray or similar product,
* It is sometimes desirable to have the bare shaft impact just slightly applied to the last quarter of the arrow shaft, fletching,
below the identically-aimed fletched shafts. Bare shafts that impact above arrow rest assembly and sight window near the arrow
identically-aimed fletched shafts indicate a low nocking point. If the
rest. Do not disturb the powder sprayed on the arrow and
nocking point is too low, it may force the arrow fletching down into the
arrow rest, creating Clearance problems.
6
Arrow Tuning and Maintenance Guide
2. Make sure your arrow rest support arm does not
protrude past the outside of the arrow shaft when the
Fig. 11 arrow is resting on the support arm and is lying against
Fishtailing the cushion plunger or side loading device. See Fig. 8.
3. Choose a lower profile fletching.
4. Follow the procedures for Tuning Adjustments within
the Bow and Arrow System on page 10 for equipment
modifications to achieve a better tune.
5. Move the cushion plunger or side loading device
slightly out from the bow to help increase clearance if
the other tuning modifications have no effect.
Paper Tuning Arrow Test
(Recurve or compound - RF, CF, CR)
Archers using mechanical release aids (CR) should review
the following reminder notes before starting the Paper
Tuning Test.
Stiff Arrow Weak Arrow
Unfletched shafts impact left Unfletched shafts impact right 1. Align the arrow down the center of the bowstring with
(RH archer, opposite for LH) (RH archer, opposite for LH) the tip of the arrow point correctly positioned as
indicated in Fig. 7, page 3.
2. Initially position the sight pin over the centerline of
Fig. 12
the arrow.
Minnowing
3. When using a release aid the arrow normally bends
more vertically than horizontally, so good clearance
is essential. Usually, the entire arrow contacts the rest
when it is shot and the fletching must be positioned to
clear the rest.
(cid:210)SHOOT-THROUGH(cid:211) RESTS - It may be necessary to
bow while preparing to shoot. The arrow should be shot adjust the width of the arrow rest support arm(s) so the
into a firm target so that it will not penetrate to the fletching will pass cleanly over or through.
fletching. (cid:210)SHOOT-AROUND(cid:211) RESTS - Vane-to-nock indexing is
very important and should be adjusted to achieve
If you are not achieving good arrow clearance, and the
maximum clearance.
arrow fletching and bow make contact, optimum grouping
cannot be achieved. By examining the areas where the The Paper Tuning Arrow Test is the most commonly
dry powder spray is scraped off, the nature of any used bow tuning test for archers using compound bows
interference can be determined, and the position of the with release aids. This test also works well for finger
fletching as the arrow leaves the bow can be identified. release:
Easton has introduced a new term indicating clearance 1. Firmly attach a sheet of paper to a picture frame type
problems called Minnowing. Like Fishtailing or rack approximately 24" X 24" (60 x 60 cm).
Porpoising, Minnowing indicates a specific arrow flight 2. Position the center of the paper about shoulder height
disturbance. Minnowing will appear to look much like with a target mat about six feet behind the paper to
Fishtailing except that the tail of the arrow appears to stop the arrows.
move from side to side more quickly, and the amount of
3. Stand approximately 4 to 6 feet (7.8-1.5 m) from the
side swing is usually much less than in Fishtailing. (See
paper.
Fig. 12.) Minnowing indicates inadequate clearance and
is caused by the rear portion of the arrow (usually 4. Shoot a fletched arrow through the center of the paper
fletching) contacting the arrow rest assembly. with the arrow at shoulder height (parallel to the
floor).
Correcting Clearance Problems
5. Observe how the paper is torn.
The following procedures can help you correct clearance
problems that cause Minnowing:
1. If the arrow fletching is hitting the arrow rest, try
rotating your arrow nock 1/32 of a turn. Continue This tear indicates good arrow flight. The
rotating the nock in 1/32-turn increments until point and fletching enter the same hole.
clearance is achieved.
7
Standard Tuning(cid:209)Paper Tuning Arrow Test
This tear indicates a low nocking point. 3. Make sure the bow hand is well relaxed to eliminate
To correct, raise the nocking point 1/16" excessive bow hand torque.
(1.6˚mm) at a time and repeat the proce-
dure until the low vertical tear is elimi- This tear indicates a weak arrow reaction
nated. or clearance problem for right-handed
finger release (RF, CF) archers. Left-handed
This tear indicates a high nocking point, finger release archers will have the opposite
clearance problem, or a very weak arrow if pattern. For right-handed compound
you are using a release aid. To correct, archers using mechanical releases (CR),
lower the nocking point 1/16" (1.6˚mm) at the left tear is common and usually indicates a weak
a time until the high tear is eliminated. If, arrow reaction and/or clearance problem. If a high-left
after moving the nocking point a few times, tear exists, (see next tear illustration) make sure you
the problem is unchanged, the disturbance is most likely correct the nocking point first before proceeding further.
caused by a lack of clearance or by an arrow which is too
Finger Release (RF, CF) To correct:
weak (if using a release aid). To identify a clearance
problem, check to see if the arrow fletching is hitting the 1.Check for Clearance (See page 5).
arrow rest. (See (cid:210)Clearance(cid:211) on page 5.) 2.Decrease bow weight/peak bow weight.
CR - If no clearance problem exists and you are using a 3. Use a lighter arrow point and/or insert combination.
mechanical release, try:
4. Use a heavier bowstring (more strands or heavier
1. A more flexible arrow rest blade if using a launcher material).
type rest or reduce downward spring tension on
5. Use a stiffer spine arrow.
adjustable tension launcher rests.
6. Increase cushion plunger tension or use a stiffer
2. Decreasing peak bow weight if there is an indication
spring on (cid:210)shoot around(cid:211) rests.
the arrow spine is too weak.
7. CF only - Move the arrow rest slightly out, away from
3. Reducing the amount the shaft overhangs the contact
the bow.
point on the arrow rest.
Mechanical Release Aid (CR) To correct:
4. Choosing a stiffer arrow shaft.
1. Move the arrow rest to the right. Continue
to move the rest to the right in small increments
This tear indicates a stiff arrow reaction for
until the left tear is eliminated.
right-handed archers using finger release
(RF, CF). Left-handed finger release archers 2. Make sure the bow hand is well relaxed to eliminate
will have an opposite pattern. This is an excessive bow hand torque.
uncommon tear for right-handed
3. Decrease peak bow weight.
compound archers using a mechanical
release (CR). However, it can occur and generally 4. Choose a stiffer spine arrow.
indicates that the arrow rest position is too far to the right
or that there is possible vane contact on the inside of the This tear shows a combination of more
launcher rest. than one flight disturbance. Use the
procedures that apply to the tear pattern
Finger Release (RF, CF) To correct:
for your style of shooting, and combine the
1. Increase bow weight/peak bow weight. recommendations, correcting the vertical
2. Use a heavier arrow point and/or insert pattern (nocking point) first, then the
combination. horizontal. If you experience a tuning problem (especially
with the nocking point location) and are unable to correct
3. Use a lighter bowstring (less strands or lighter material,
a high/low tear in the paper, have your local pro shop
like Fast Flight¤).
check the (cid:210)timing(cid:211) (roll-over) of your eccentric wheels or
4. Use a weaker spine arrow. cams.
5. Decrease cushion plunger tension or use a weaker
For archers using release aids, it may, in some cases, be
spring on (cid:210)shoot around(cid:211) rests.
necessary to apply adjustments opposite from those
6. CF only - Move the arrow rest slightly in toward the
described. The type of arrow rest and release aid
bow.
combination used can alter the dynamic flex of the arrow
Mechanical Release Aid (CR) To correct: to produce tear patterns contrary to those indicated
(although it is uncommon).
1. Move the arrow rest to the left. Continue
moving the rest to the left in small increments Once you have achieved a good tune at 4 to 6 feet (1.2-
until the right tear is eliminated. 1.8 m), move back 6 feet (1.8 m) more and continue to
shoot through the paper. This ensures that the tune is
2. Make sure the arrow has adequate clearance past the
correct and that the arrow was not just in a recovery position
cable guard and cables.
when it passed through the paper at the first distance.
8
Arrow Tuning and Maintenance Guide
SHORT DISTANCE TUNING
(Recurve and compound - RF, CF, CR)
Many times it is not possible to shoot long distances when
your equipment needs to be tuned. The following method
results in a very good equipment tune at short distances.
Use this tuning method after you have completed one of Fig. 13
the basic bow-tuning methods(cid:209)either the Bare Shaft Up-Down Impact
Planing or Paper Tuning Arrow Test.
Start at approximately 12 to 15 yards (meters) from the
target. Use a 40 cm or 60 cm target face and place it with
the face side in so you are shooting at a plain white target.
Up-Down Impact
Using fletched arrows only, shoot approximately 6 to 8
arrows along the top edge of the target face. This step
determines if your nocking point is correct. See Fig. 13.
Normally, small tuning problems show up at close range,
Fig. 14
because the arrow has its maximum vibration at short
Left-Right Impact
distance. This test assists you in identifying these arrow
flight problems and makes it possible to make finer
adjustments than with the previous tuning procedures.
If you are unable to consistently hit the top edge of the
target face, there is probably a small tuning disturbance
in the equipment. To correct, make a 1/ " (.8˚mm)
32
nocking point adjustment either up or down and shoot until you achieve the best possible vertical impact line of
again. Continue making nocking point adjustments in arrows. If the vertical line widens, go back to your
1/ 32 " (.8˚mm) increments (no more than 1/ 32 " (.8˚mm) at a original arrow rest position and move it 1/ 32 " (.8˚mm) in
time). the opposite direction. If the vertical line narrows, continue
1/ " (.8˚mm) adjustments in that direction until you
If your arrows are hitting the top edge of the paper more 32
achieve the straightest line possible.
consistently and you are achieving a straight, horizontal
line of arrows across the top of the paper, you are CF archers using cushion plungers should make the
correcting the disturbance. If the horizontal line of arrow necessary arrow rest adjustments and then try a
impact is widening, go back to your original nocking second tuning adjustment, the cushion plunger
point position and start making 1/ 32 " (.8˚mm) nocking spring tension. Increase or decrease spring tension
point adjustments in the opposite direction. This will 1/8 of a turn at a time. Again, if the vertical line becomes
provide you with the correct nocking point position. wider, return to the original spring tension setting and
make 1/8 turn adjustments in the opposite direction until
Left-Right Impact
you achieve a narrow vertical impact line.
Once you have achieved the straightest horizontal line of
arrows that your ability will allow, you are ready to tune RF archers should make cushion plunger spring
for left/right arrow impact. Shoot 6 to 8 arrows at the left tension adjustments only, increasing or decreasing
edge of the paper in a vertical line. See Fig. 14. the spring tension 1/ 8 -turn at a time. If the vertical
line becomes wider, return to the original spring
To improve the left/right impact for CR and CF tension setting and make 1/ -turn adjustments in the
8
archers, move the in/out position of your arrow opposite direction until you achieve a narrow vertical
rest. This is done to compensate for the effect of the impact line. Do not move the in/out position of your
eccentric wheel. The offset of the eccentric wheel arrow! The in/out position of your arrow to the centerline
on compound bows does not always compensate of the bow has already been established in the preliminary
for the degree of natural torque generated in the bow. equipment setup.
The wheel often torques or leans over slightly as it
reaches the full draw position. This is common and is TROUBLE-SHOOTING
nothing to be concerned about. At full draw, the (cid:210)limb
center(cid:211) you started with in the preliminary setup may not ARROW GROUPS
really be the true balanced center. Therefore, through
You may have heard people say, (cid:210)If your arrows group
some trial and error, you must locate the best in/out
well at 20 yards, they will group at any distance,(cid:211) or, (cid:210)If
position for the arrow to obtain maximum accuracy.
your arrows group at long distances, they will group at
Make a 1/ 32 " (.8˚mm) adjustment either in or out and short distances.(cid:211) In some cases, neither statement is true.
shoot again. Continue making 1/ 32 " (.8˚mm) adjustments There may be a minute disturbance in the equipment
9
Standard Tuning(cid:209)Short Distance Tuning
that affects the equipment’s potential for superior accu-
racy and causes poor arrow grouping. What follows here
is information that will help you perform the fine tuning
Fig. 15 adjustments necessary to eliminate most or all of the
Good grouping patterns show progressively increasing minute tuning problems.
grouping sizes as shooting distances increase.
Many archers have experienced one or all of the following
arrow grouping/arrow flight combinations:
Poor arrow flight and good grouping - This is commonly
the result of a stiff arrow. The arrow yaws slightly as
30 m 50 m 70 m 90 m
it leaves the bow, but usually recovers quickly and
often produces very acceptable grouping.
Good arrow flight and poor grouping - Although this
seems contradictory, the phenomenon is somewhat
common and relates to the tuning method you use.
Having a perfect bullet hole through paper using the
Fig. 16 Paper Tuning Arrow Test, or having the bare shafts
Excessive Drag impact exactly with the fletched shafts using the Bare
Shaft Planing Test, does not always mean your arrows
will group well; it only indicates you have good arrow
flight. For this reason, Easton has developed the Fine
Tuning and Micro Tuning methods, to assist you in
obtaining optimal grouping from your equipment.
30 m 50 m 70 m 90 m
Poor arrow flight and poor grouping - This is most often
a problem of mismatched arrow spine or untuned
equipment. The information and tuning procedures
in this bulletin should help you correct this problem.
Good arrow flight and good grouping - This should be
the end result of your efforts!
Fig. 17 Arrow grouping patterns often reveal probable arrow
Insufficient Clearance flight problems. Two of the most common grouping
indicators for determining arrow flight problems are
described below. The examples provided are shown in
FITA distances, although they easily correlate to any
30 m 50 m 70 m 90 m long- and short-distance shooting. Fig. 15 illustrates good
grouping patterns at the distances indicated.
Excessive Drag
The grouping examples in Fig. 16 show a large pattern at
long distances (90 m) but the grouping is within accept-
Fig. 18 Fig. 19 able limits at closer distances. This pattern implies the
Poor close range grouping Path without arrow has too much drag. Excessive drag will cause the
Acceptable long range grouping disturbance arrow to become unstable due to the rapid decay of its
forward velocity. When forward velocity drops too
quickly, instability occurs. This unstable flight causes
90 m poor grouping at long distances and extreme vulnerabil-
ity to wind drift. On light weight arrows, it is very
80 m
important to reduce drag to a minimum to maintain
70 m
maximum downrange velocity. This can be done by
60 m reducing the size (height and/or length) of the fletching
50 m or by reducing the angle of the fletching, or both.
40 m Insufficient Clearance
30 m
The grouping patterns in Fig. 17 show acceptable group-
20 m ing at the two long distances. However, the shorter
10 m distance groups are not reduced in size proportionately
to the longer distance groups. (Compare to Fig. 15). This
0 m
usually indicates a clearance problem or micro distur-
10
Arrow Tuning and Maintenance Guide
bance within the bow and arrow system. To correct, see Point and Insert Weight
the section on Clearance on page 5 or the Fine Tuning X10, A/C/E and A/C/C, & Beman ICS arrows can be
and Micro Tuning sections on pages 12-14. tuned by using various point and/or insert weight com-
binations. External component systems use weight com-
Fig. 18 illustrates why you may have problems with close
binations of point plus outsert. Aluminum arrows can be
distance grouping while long-distance groups are good.
point-weight-tuned by using 7%, 8% or 9% F.O.C. NIBB
When an arrow is shot, it is at its maximum bending as
points. If your arrow is too weak, go to a lighter insert/
it leaves the bow. As the arrow travels further, the
point. If your arrow is too stiff, try a heavier insert/point.
amount of flexing reduces (dampens). If the flexing
Continue to change insert and/or point weight within the
reduces, then so does the magnitude of any original
acceptable balance point range (7-16% F.O.C.).
disturbance. The example shows that the arrow has some
disturbance and close range grouping is poor, although Brace Height
the arrow stabilizes at longer range and provides
For recurve bows, another way of altering arrow spine is
acceptable groups. Micro disturbances and clearance
with the brace height. By increasing or decreasing the
problems usually cause these disturbances.
distance from the bowstring to the pivot point of the grip,
Fig. 19 shows the path of the arrow when it leaves the bow the dynamic spine of the arrow can be made slightly
without any disturbance. This is the path you are trying weaker or stiffer. Increasing brace height will make the
to achieve in the Fine Tuning and Micro Tuning processes. arrow shoot weaker, and decreasing brace height will
make the arrow shoot stiffer.
ADJUSTMENTS WITHIN THE
Brace height affects arrow spine by increasing or
BOW AND ARROW SYSTEM decreasing the amount of energy delivered to the arrow
at the moment of release. Raising the brace height
(shortening the bowstring) compresses the limbs,
If you are having problems tuning your bow, you will
increasing stress (prestress or preload) in the limb ma-
need to make some modifications to your equipment to
terial. The more preloading of the limbs, the greater the
achieve a better tune. Here are some suggestions:
actual bow poundage at full draw. The reverse is true
Bow Weight Adjustment when lowering brace height. A lower brace height
(lengthening the bowstring) reduces the prestress in the
Virtually all compound bows, as well as some recurve
limbs and reduces bow weight at full draw.
bows, have an adjustable draw weight. If your arrow
reaction is too stiff, increase the draw weight. If your
arrow reaction is too weak, decrease the draw weight.
RECURVE BOW
MAXIMUM BRACE HEIGHT RANGE
LENGTH
Bowstring
Bowstring (cid:210)weight(cid:211) can have a significant effect on arrow
64" 73/
4
"— 9" (19.7 cm to 22.9 cm)
spine. Increasing or decreasing the number of strands in
66" 8" — 91/
4
" (20.3 cm to 23.5 cm)
the bowstring can influence the arrow’s dynamic spine
68" 81/
4
"— 91/
2
" (21.0 cm to 24.1 cm)
enough to require a shaft size change of one full size
70" 81/
2
"— 93/
4
" (21.6 cm to 24.8 cm)
weaker or stiffer. If your arrow reaction is too stiff,
decrease the number of strands in your bowstring. If your
However, raising brace height produces some small loss
arrow reaction is too weak, increase the number of
in arrow velocity as the slight increase in draw weight
strands. Serving weight (center serving) can also produce
does not equally compensate for the reduction in the
the same effect. For example, monofilament center serv-
bow’s (cid:210)power stroke.(cid:211) When the power stroke is reduced,
ing will cause the arrow to react stiffer than lighter weight
the amount of time the arrow stays on the bowstring is
nylon center serving. Simply changing from a metal
also reduced, in turn, decreasing the length of time the
nocking point to a (cid:210)tie-on(cid:211) nocking point can have a
arrow has to absorb the bow’s energy.
noticeable effect on arrow spine, due to the weight
difference between the two styles of nocking points. Although you may note a small loss in velocity when
increasing brace height, do not let speed be the deciding
The bowstring is a critical part of your technical
factor when selecting the best brace height for your bow.
equipment. If you have a very difficult time tuning your
As is often said, (cid:210)Better to have a slow bull’s eye than a
bow, the problem could be the bowstring. An incorrectly
fast miss.(cid:211)
made bowstring can produce a tension imbalance in the
strands of the string causing some strands to be looser Adjusting the brace height on a compound bow is often
than others. This imbalance forces the string to load and overlooked as a tuning adjustment. This is because the
stretch at different rates, creating an inconsistent arrow changes in brace height will change the draw length and
launch which greatly decreases accuracy. If a problem draw weight possibly requiring additional adjustments.
exists, and tuning procedures don’t seem to be working, Nevertheless, finding the correct brace height for your
try changing the string and retuning. compound (usually higher than the manufacturer(cid:213)s setting)
11
Standard Tuning(cid:209)Broadheads
can, in many cases, greatly improve consistency and The field points should be as close in weight as possible
grouping and should be considered as a fine tuning to the weight of the broadheads. Because it is necessary
adjustment. to first establish a good group with field points, broadhead
tuning can be done only after acceptable tuning has been
The chart on the previous page shows the full range of
established with field points.
brace height adjustments for most modern recurve bows.
Changes within the brace height ranges shown can affect Shoot a Group with Field Points
arrow spine as much as changing the arrow point and/or
Set up a suitable broadhead target at a distance of 20 to
insert weight approximately 20 grains (1.3 grams).
30 yards. Using a set of field-tipped arrows that have been
Remember, it is best to shoot your bow at its smoothest
tuned with your bow, shoot a group of 3 or 4 arrows into
and quietest setting, (although most recurve bows perform
the target. Take care to shoot as good a group as you are
well at two brace height settings). Easton does not suggest
capable.
an extreme range of brace height. The chart offers a
range wide enough to create a (cid:210)between(cid:211) size arrow Shoot a group with Broadheads
spine. Using identical arrows tipped with broadheads, shoot a
If, after trying all of the tuning procedures listed, you find group of 3 or 4 arrows into the target. Use the same
your arrows are still too weak or too stiff to fly properly, aiming spot that was used for the field points.
choose a different arrow size and retune. The shot group is the key. If you are content you have
shot a respectable group based on your ability, then
BROADHEAD TUNING compare the position of the two groups. Make the
adjustments listed below to your setup and shoot both
groups again. Keep adjusting and shooting until both
In general terms, broadhead tuning is done by first
groups (field points and broadheads) group in the same
shooting a group of arrows with field points into the
area.
target, and then by shooting a group of arrows with
broadheads. The two groups are compared and the Make Adjustments
appropriate adjustments are made.
See Fig. 20 below and adjustments on next page.
CAUTION: Never shoot unfletched shafts with
broadheads(cid:209)flight is extremely erratic and dangerous!
Fig. 20
Broadhead Tuning
Remember — make only one
Raise Nocking Point adjustment at a time.
Multiple Adjustments
¥ Raise nocking point first
¥ Make stiff spine
adjustments last
Stiff Spine Reaction Weak Spine Reaction
(Adjustments are for right- (Adjustments are for right-
handed shooters. Reverse for handed shooters. Reverse for
left-handed shooters.) left-handed shooters.)
¥ Increase bow poundage ¥ Decrease bow poundage
¥ Increase broadhead weight ¥ Lighten broadhead weight
¥ Decrease tension in cushion ¥ Increase tension in cushion
plunger plunger
¥ Move the arrow rest or cushion ¥ Move the arrow rest or cushion
plunger in toward the bow. plunger out away from the bow.
Make adjustments 1/32" at a Make adjustments 1/32" at a
time. time.
= Field Point Group
Lower Nocking Point
= Broadhead Group
12
Arrow Tuning and Maintenance Guide
Adjustments
FINE TUNING
Adjustments sometimes effect more than is expected. It
is best to always make the up/down adjustments first.
The Fine Tuning process is similar to Micro Tuning but
Once the two groups are on the same horizontal plane,
slightly less refined. You will need a pencil and paper and
then make the left/right adjustments.
several copies of the sample targets provided below.
1. If the broadheads group above the field points, move
1. Write down the exact measurements of your bow.
the nocking point up.
For example:
2. If the broadheads group below the field points, move
a. Nocking point height
the nocking point down.
b. Brace height
3. If the broadheads group to the left, they are behaving c. Tiller
as if the shaft is too stiff (for a right handed archer). d. Number of strands in the bowstring
Any, or several, of the following can be done to e. Bow draw weight
correct the point of impact. f. Type of stabilizers used, etc.
¥ Increase the poundage on the bow. In other words, everything you can think of to docu-
¥ Change to heavier broadheads. ment your equipment.
¥ If you are using a cushion plunger, decrease the
2. Number your arrows. This enables you to plot groups
spring tension.
and to plot each individual arrow impact.
¥ Move the arrow rest or cushion plunger in toward
3. Prepare to shoot from a comfortable distance,
the bow. Make adjustments 1/ " at a time
32
somewhere between 40 to 60 yards (meters).
4. If the broadheads group to the right, they are behaving
4. Shoot an end or two to warm up before starting.
as if the shaft is too weak. Any or several of the
following can be done to correct the point of impact. 5. After warming-up, shoot a group of 6 to 10 fletched
¥ Decrease the poundage on the bow. arrows.
¥ Change to lighter broadheads.
6. Write down the number of each arrow and the impact
¥ If you are using a cushion plunger, increase the
point on the sample target.
spring tension.
¥ Move the arrow rest or cushion plunger out away 7. Repeat steps 5 and 6 and compare. You want to
from the bow. Make adjustments 1/ " at a time. achieve similar results initially.
32
Remember, broadhead tuning can only be accomplished 8. Make adjustments as described on the following page.
after the bow has been properly setup and tuned with
field or target points.
5 5
6 6
7 7
8 8
9 9
5 6 7 8 9 9 8 7 6 5 5 6 7 8 9 9 8 7 6 5
9 9
8 8
7 7
6 6
5 5
5 5
6 6
7 7
8 8
9 9
5 6 7 8 9 9 8 7 6 5 5 6 7 8 9 9 8 7 6 5
9 9
8 8
7 7
6 6
5 5
13
Fine Tuning
Up-Down Impact Arrow Straightness
Adjust the nocking point 1/ " (.8˚mm) either up or down. Arrows must be straight for tight grouping. Easton rec-
32
Shoot another two groups and plot the arrows in the same ommends straightness within 0.004" for best grouping.
manner as described on page 12. For future reference, be
Crooked Nocks
sure to write down your bow adjustment on each arrow
group you plot. Compare the groups to determine if the There are several ways to check nock straightness, in-
high and low arrow impact has improved or is worse. If cluding commercially available nock gauges and broad-
it has improved, make another adjustment of 1/ " (.8˚mm) head spinning wheels.
32
in the same direction and shoot another two ends. If the Nock Indexing
high and low arrow impact is worse, go back to the
original setting and make the same adjustment in the It is possible that one nock in the set may be turned more
opposite direction. Continue this process until you achieve than the others. A clearance problem results if the nock
the most consistent group elevation. is rotated too far, forcing the fletching into the arrow rest
when shot.
Left-Right Impact
CF and CR shooters can adjust the left/right position of Loose or Damaged Fletching
your arrow rest approximately 1/ 32 " (.8˚mm) either If the fletching becomes even slightly detached from the
in or out. Shoot two groups and plot the arrows. Be shaft, the arrow will not group with the others. In fact, the
sure to indicate your bow adjustment on each arrow may not even hit the target past 30 yards (meters)
plotted arrow group. Compare the groups you just if the back of any fletch is slightly loose! Fletching that is
shot and determine if they are getting better or worse. If slightly damaged will not usually affect arrow grouping
the groups improved, make another adjustment of 1/ 32 " unless you shoot a hard or rigid vane. Care should be
(.8˚mm) in the same direction and shoot another two taken to examine hard vanes each time you shoot to
ends. If the groups are worse, go back to the original ensure that no vanes are damaged. If the rear of any hard
setting and make the same adjustment in the opposite vane is bent, it will produce a rudder effect, causing large
direction. Continue this process until the best possible deviation in impact.
groups have been achieved with this single adjustment.
Loose Points/Inserts
After left/right adjustment of the arrow rest or cushion
Many archers are not aware of this potential problem.
plunger, CF shooters can adjust the spring tension of the
Points must be properly installed with Easton’s hot melt
cushion plunger 1/ - to 1/ -turn weaker or stiffer and
8 4 adhesive fully coating the entire length of the shank of
continue the procedure, making 1/-turn adjustments at a
8 the point or insert. Carefully follow the instructions on
time to achieve a finer tune.
point/insert installation which follow later in this Guide.
Remember, RF archers should adjust the cushion plunger Easton recommends only Easton’s hot melt adhesive. If
pressure only, increasing or decreasing the spring you are using another hot melt ferrule cement, it may be
tension 1/-turn at a time. Do not move the in/out too brittle and may fracture when the arrow impacts hard
8
position of your arrow! target butt materials. If the cement fractures or is improp-
erly applied, it can result in a separation between the
Reading the Plotted Arrow Groups
point/insert and the shaft. When the arrow is shot, the
Carefully examine the arrow grouping patterns you separation of the bond between the shaft and point can
plotted. Note the different shapes of the groups and how produce a secondary vibration which in turn affects the
the adjustments altered the arrow impact and size of the arrow(cid:213)s natural vibration and accuracy. To test for point
groups. Examine each arrow by its number. Take careful vibration, simply hold the arrow near the fletching and
note of any arrows that did not group consistently with lightly tap the point on a table, or drop the arrow on a
the other shafts. You will probably want to mark these hard floor from a height of one foot. If you hear a buzzing
shafts so you will know not to use them in competition. sound, the point/insert is probably loose. Heat and pull
out the point/insert and properly reinstall per Easton’s
Identifying Arrow Problems
instructions on page 19.
You may find an arrow that does not group well with the
Arrow Weight
other arrows in the set. Examine it before you discard
that arrow or retire it from competition. Sometimes a Arrow weight is an important consideration for the
problem is easily identified. If a shaft is cracked or dented serious tournament archer and should be checked if you
it should be discarded. have arrows which consistently impact a little high or low
of your group.
Some arrows may seem fine, but they may have problems
which are not obvious and can cause the arrows not to A matched set of arrows should have no more than a
group well. The following list includes the common three grain spread between the heaviest and lightest
arrow problems, many of which can cause tremendous arrows in the set. Top tournament archers frequently
impact variations. match their arrows to one grain or less.
14
Arrow Tuning and Maintenance Guide
Recurve archers (RF) should adjust only the cushion
MICRO TUNING
plunger spring tension, not the in/out adjustment.
Make adjustments to the cushion plunger spring
Micro Tuning adjustments are similar to Fine Tuning tension in 1/8 turn increments only. Follow the
and are designed to produce optimum grouping at all same instructions as for compound bows by first shooting
distances. two groups and measuring the furthest left and right
arrows. Make the first spring tension adjustment either
1. Prepare to shoot from the longest distance you would
stiffer or weaker and shoot two more ends. Again, if the
normally shoot in competition.
group becomes wider, go back to the original setting and
2. Shoot at least 8 to 10 arrows. make an adjustment 1/8 of a turn in the opposite direction.
3. Measure and record the distance between your highest Once you have completed the long distance tuning,
and lowest arrow. move up 20 yards (18 m) and work on the left/right
4. Shoot a second group of arrows before making any impact again, making the same adjustments as at the
adjustments. previous distance. It should not be necessary to adjust the
nocking point, only the adjustments for left/right grouping.
5. Again, measure and record the distance between
After you have completed this distance, move 20 yards
your highest and lowest arrow.
(18 m) closer and repeat this test again for left/right
6. Repeat steps 2-5 with each of the following impact only.
adjustments:
Continue this process until your last distance is
Up-Down Impact approximately 20 yards (18 m) from the target. You may
find that as little as 1/ of a turn on the cushion plunger or
Make no more than a 1/ " (.8˚mm) change in nocking 8
32
a 1/ " (.8˚mm) in/out adjustment (for compound bows)
point height either up or down. Shoot two more ends and 32
can have a noticeable effect on short distance grouping.
record the distance between the highest and lowest
It is essential to continue testing and tuning in 20 yard (18
arrow. If the combined distance between the last two
m) increments. This way, you will know that your
groups is less than the combined total of the first two
equipment can perform well at any distance when shooting
groups, you are making the correct adjustment. Con-
competition.
tinue to make 1/ " (.8˚mm) nocking point adjustments
32
until you achieve the shortest possible distance between This same fine tuning procedure can be done with brace
your high and low arrows. height for both compound bows and recurves. Make
brace height adjustments in approximately 1/ " (.8˚mm)
If after several nocking point adjustments, you notice the 32
increments and plot the arrow groups. After completing
group height starting to open back up, you have probably
this procedure, you should find a combination of
gone too far in the adjustment and need to go back to
adjustments that will either slightly or significantly
where you had the best setting.
improve arrow grouping.
Left-Right Impact
Points to Remember:
Once you are satisfied with the impact height of your
Install all accessories on your bow before you start any
arrows, you will need to correct the left/right impact.
bow tuning procedures.
Continue shooting groups of 8 to 10 arrows. Shoot two
ends and measure the distance between the furthest left An essential part of your equipment is a good quality set
and furthest right arrows for both ends. of arrows.
For compound archers (CF and CR), move the Adjustments made to the bow, changes in bow
in/out position of your arrow rest 1/ " (.8˚mm) in components, or alterations in shooting form can affect
32
either direction. Shoot two more groups and again the tune or your equipment. Remember, you and
measure the distance between the furthest left and your equipment share a unique relationship and are
right arrows. Compare these two ends against the previous totally integrated. Any change to either will produce
two ends. If the total width of the grouping pattern has varying effects.
reduced, you are making the correct adjustment. If the
Change only one variable at a time when tuning.
group becomes wider, go back to your original setting
If, after trying all of the tuning adjustments outlined in
and move the rest 1/ " (.8˚mm) in the opposite direction
32
this Tuning Guide, your arrows still do not fly true, it
and resume the test. Continue these adjustments until
may be necessary to change your arrow size to a stiffer
you have achieved the tightest possible grouping at that
or weaker shaft and retune.
distance.
CF archers using cushion plungers should make the
in/out adjustments first until you have achieved the
tightest left/right impact possible. Then, you can use the **The tuning methods were compiled and edited by
cushion plunger spring tension the same as described for Don Rabska with contributions from Terry Ragsdale,
recurves to fine tune your arrow impact. Fred Troncoso, and others.
15
Measuring and Cutting Shafts
Measuring Correct Arrow
A R R O W Length
Your Recommended Correct Arrow Length can be
A S S E M B L Y
determined by drawing back an extra-long arrow and
having someone mark the arrow. This distance is
measured from the front of the bow or from the front of
Cutting Shafts, Installing the place where the arrow contacts the most forward
position of the arrow rest. Which method to use depends
Components, and Arrow
on the type of bow and arrow being set up.
Maintenance
To determine the proper distance for a specific setup,
find the appropriate illustration (Figures 21-26). From
this you can measure your arrow length and know where
Contents
the shaft should be cut.
This section of the Arrow Tuning and Maintenance Guide
contains instructions for the assembly of shafts and Mark the arrow
in front of the
components. It starts with functions that apply to all types
bow or arrow
of shafts (with noted exceptions)(cid:209)determining correct rest as specified
length, measuring shafts, and cutting shafts. by the
appropriate
illustration
Methods for installing points and fletching vary based on
(figures 21-26).
the type of shaft being used, so these instructions are
grouped based on their generic shaft type(cid:209)Aluminum,
Aluminum/Carbon, Carbon with internal components Recommended Correct Arrow
(ICS), and Carbon with external components.
Length
Most shafts can be used with at least two types of nock
systems, so the nock systems are all grouped together in X10, A/C/E, A/C/C, HyperSpeed, Aluminum,
one section following the point and fletching sections for and Carbon Shafts with Internal Components
the various shafts.
For hunting arrows shot from bows with cutout sight
The last part of the Guide contains additional information windows (including overdraw bows) and for target/field/
of a more general nature, including F.O.C. calculations, 3-D arrows shot from all types of bows, it is recommended
AMO(cid:213)s minimum recommended arrow weights, and that the Correct Arrow Length be determined by drawing
safety tips. back an extra-long arrow and having someone mark the
arrow about 1" in front of the place where the arrow
contacts the most forward position of the arrow rest. This
extra 1" provides a measure of safety by allowing small
MEASURING AND CUTTING
variances in draw length to occur without resulting in a
SHAFTS target arrow falling behind the arrow rest or an arrow
with a broadhead falling off from contacting the arrow
rest. This measurement is your Correct Arrow Length
and is where your shaft should be cut (see figure 21).
Correct Arrow Length
Measured from the bottom of the nock Fig. 21
groove to the end of the shaft Correct Arrow Length for hunting arrows shot from
bows WITH CUTOUT sight windows (including
Correct Arrow Length overdraw) and for all target/field arrows shot from any
bow with or without cutout sight windows (including
Correct Arrow Length is measured from the bottom of overdraws).
the nock groove to the end of the shaft (see diagram). This
Correct Arrow Length
distance includes a portion of the nock, the nock insert or
1"
outsert if any, and the shaft length. The point is not
included. This is the length used for shaft selection.
The optimum length of a finished arrow for a specific
archer is determined by several factors including the
draw length of the archer, the style of point, the configu-
Place where arrow
ration of the bow, and the archer(cid:213)s shooting style. To
contacts most forward
determine your correct arrow length, use the procedures portion of arrow rest
that follow.
16
Arrow Tuning and Maintenance Guide
For hunting arrows on bows without cutout sight win-
dows your broadhead should have at least 1" bow clear- Fig. 24
ance past the far side of the bow. Have someone mark an Correct Arrow Length for hunting arrows shot from
extra long arrow while you(cid:213)re at full draw about 1" bows WITHOUT CUTOUT sight windows (or not
beyond the back (far side) of the bow (see figure 22). cutout enough for broadhead clearance).
NOTE: On bows without cutout sight windows the
Fig. 22 broadhead cannot be pulled (cid:210)into the bow.(cid:211) It is
necessary, then to provide enough broadhead clearance
Correct Arrow Length for hunting arrows with
in front of the bow when the arrow is pulled to full draw
broadheads shot from bows WITHOUT CUTOUT
to prevent the broadhead from bumping against the bow.
sight windows (or not cutout enough for
broadhead clearance). Correct Arrow Length is
measured from 1/4" beyond
Correct Arrow Length the far side of the bow.
1" Clearance
Correct Arrow Length
1/4"
1" broadhead
clearance
Recommended Correct Arrow
Length Fig. 25
Correct Arrow Length for hunting/field arrows
(Carbon Shafts with External equipped with Point Outserts and broadheads or
Components) screw-in points shot from bows WITH OVERDRAWS
AND CUTOUT sight windows.
Some shafts are fitted with components that fit over the Correct Arrow Length is measured
outside of the shaft. To accommodate this, the outserts from 11/8" in front of the most
forward part of the arrow rest.
and one-piece points must be larger in diameter than the
Correct Arrow
shaft. Therefore, all Correct Arrow Length calculations
Length
allow for at least 1(cid:218)" clearance from the back of the One-
2
Piece Point or Standard Adapter to the most forward part
of the arrow rest (as indicated by the diagrams). This
11/8"
prevents any disturbance to the arrow caused by the
outsert as the arrow is drawn or released.
1/2" clearance
Fig. 23
Correct Arrow Length for target arrows with One-
Piece Points shot from ALL TYPES of bows (with
or without cutout sight windows and with or without
overdraw).
For target points Correct Arrow Length
is measured from 3(cid:218)4" in front of the
Fig. 26
most forward part of the arrow rest.
Correct Arrow Length for all arrows shot from bows
WITH CUTOUT sight windows (no overdraws).
Correct Arrow Length
3/4" 
sured
forward part of the arrow rest.
Correct Arrow Length
1/2" clearance 11/8"
from the back of the 1-Piece Point
to the most forward portion of the
arrow rest
1/2" clearance
NOTE: Beginners with recurve bows may want to add
an extra 1(cid:218) "-1" to their arrow length so that, as they
2
become stronger and their shooting technique improves,
the arrow will not be too short.
Measuring and Cutting Shafts 17
Determining Shaft Cut length
Fig. 28
Remember that your Correct Arrow Length is measured THE EASTON PRO SHOP
to the bottom of the nock groove and includes the small
CUT-OFF TOOL SET UP
distance that the nock base extends beyond the nock
Cut
taper. Therefore, your shaft cut length is slightly shorter
than your Correct Arrow Length. through Cutoff
1/3 of the Wheel
Cutting Shafts to Length O.D. of
shaft Wheel
After determining Correct Arrow Length follow the steps Rotation
Shaft
below.
Note: Carbon shafts of all types must be cut carefully to
prevent splintering of the carbon (graphite) fibers. Shaft
Rotation
Never use rotary tube cutters, hack saws or other meth-
ods that can damage the shaft or leave a rough cut. Always
wear a NIOSH approved dust mask and safety glasses when
Adjustable
cutting arrow shafts!
shaft
1. Set up the Easton Pro Shop Cut-Off Tool to cut the support
shaft so that after the nock system is installed, the total
length of the shaft plus nock system will equal your
The Easton Cutoff Tool is designed to cut all tubular arrow
desired Correct Arrow Length. To do this you will
material. The precision motor turns a thin abrasive cutting
have to temporarily install the nock system on one full
wheel for an exceptionally burr-free cut on aluminum and
length shaft and then use that shaft to measure and set can prevent splintering of carbon fibers when cutting carbon
up the proper cutoff length. shafts.
2. Set the shaft support on the Cut-Off Tool so the
abrasive wheel only cuts about 1(cid:218) through the diameter
3
of the shaft as shown in Fig. 28 (above right). Easton Aluminum
3. While slowly rotating the shaft in the same direction
as the cutoff wheel, gently push the shaft into the
wheel and rotate the shaft until it is completely cut. Deburr no more than 1/4 of
Continue to slowly rotate the shaft two more the wall thickness
revolutions to ensure a square cut.
4. Deburring and chamfering is the final step. What
needs to be done varies with the type of shaft (see Easton X10, A/C/E, A/C/C, HyperSpeed
diagrams to the right).
ALUMINUM(cid:209)Deburr only the inside of the wall just High strength aluminum
core tube.
enough to eliminate the sharp edge of the tube.
A/C/E, A/C/C and HyperSpeed(cid:209)Deburr the inner Deburr no more than 1/4 of
aluminum core tube very lightly using the more the aluminum wall
pointed deburring head on Easton(cid:213)s Cut-Off Tool. Be
careful not to remove too much aluminum.
Beman ICS and ICS Hunter
Beman ICS (Internal Component System)(cid:209)Do not
chamfer the inside of the tube.
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
ICS Hunter (Internal Component System)(cid:209)Deburr
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
the inside of the tube just enough to remove the burr.
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
Deburr just enough to
All Carbon with External Components(cid:209)These
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0) remove burr.
components fit over the outside of the shaft, so
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
chamfering must be done on the outside edges of the Beman External Component Shafts
shaft (see illustration on right). Use the recessed
grinding stone on the Cut-Off Tool or lightly chamfer (cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
45(cid:176) Chamfer
the end of the shaft with 180- or 240-grit sandpaper. (cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
Rotate the shaft as you lightly drag the edge of the (cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
shaft along the sandpaper. Three complete revolutions
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
will produce a sufficient chamfer.
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
5. Easton recommends that you test-draw one arrow (cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
with all components installed (without adhesive) before
cutting and finishing a complete set of arrows.
(cid:0)(cid:1)(cid:2)(cid:3)(cid:0)(cid:1)(cid:2)(cid:3)
18
Arrow Tuning and Maintenance Guide
I P A
NSTALLING OINTSAND LUMINUM
ALUMINUM SHAFT
I
NSERTS
COMPONENT
INSTALLATION
MATERIALS NEEDED FOR INSTALLATION
OF POINTS AND ALUMINUM INSERTS
¥ 91% isopropyl alcohol ¥ Easton hot-melt
Shaft Construction ¥ paper towels ¥ torch or burner
¥ cotton swabs
Easton shafts, depending on the model line, are pro-
duced from super high-strength 7178 or 7075 aluminum To produce the most bend-resistant aluminum
alloys. Both alloys are processed to their highest possible shaft possible, extremely high-yield strength
strength using Easton(cid:213)s proprietary manufacturing steps. and internal stresses are built into each Easton
This insures that Easton shafts will stay straight even shaft. Therefore, care must be taken when
through severe shooting conditions. installing a point or insert to prevent
splitting the end of the shaft due to over
Easton shafts are cold drawn many times from an
stressing. Easton two-piece points and
aluminum tube that has been fusion bonded from
RPS aluminum inserts for aluminum shafts
precision coil stock. This tube has a precisely uniform
have an exclusive press-fit feature on the
spine because it is made from uniform thickness coil
last 1(cid:218) " (3˚mm) of the insert. This feature
stock, drawn many times, and thermally treated until the 8
accurately aligns the component in the shaft and holds it
fusion line is totally absorbed into the adjacent metal. To
in place while the adhesive hardens.
further ensure integrity of every shaft, each Easton
aluminum shaft goes through an eddy current tester that Follow the shaft cutting instructions carefully, then follow
(cid:210)looks(cid:211) through the wall thickness and rejects any shafts the steps below for point and aluminum insert installation.
with flaws or imperfections in the material.
NOTE: To facilitate handling, Easton recommends that
Each Easton aluminum shaft of a given size and model is a field point be screwed into the insert before heating and
guaranteed to have the same inside diameter to a tolerance inserting.
of – 0.0004". This close tolerance ensures a consistent
CAUTION: Do not overheat aluminum shafts or points!
point or insert fit. The outside diameter is made to
This is especially true with thin wall UltraLite shafts
– 0.0003" tolerance to ensure a uniform spine from shaft
which heat up more quickly than other aluminum shafts.
to shaft. In addition, the wall thickness is uniform to give
Excessive heat (over 400(cid:176) F [200(cid:176) C]) will cause
consistent spine 360(cid:176) around each shaft.
recrystallization and could permanently soften or damage
Shaft Size Identification any size aluminum shaft.
Easton uses various arrow shaft outside diameters and 1. Clean the inside of the shaft with a cotton swab dipped
wall thicknesses to obtain the necessary number of shaft in 91% isopropyl alcohol to remove the fine cutting
spines needed to shoot well from nearly all bow weight dust. Let the shaft dry thoroughly before bonding.
and arrow length combinations.
2. With a small gas flame, apply enough heat to the end
The Outside Diameter is the main factor in determining of the shaft to readily melt a ring of Easton(cid:213)s hot melt
shaft stiffness. This diameter is coded in the first two adhesive on the inside of the shaft. NOTE: Use
digits of the shaft size number(cid:209)for example, in 2312, the Easton(cid:213)s Hot Melt Adhesive only. Arrow points can
23 = 23/64". This is the shaft diameter rounded to the come out in the target mat if adhesives with lower
nearest sixty-fourth of an inch. The Wall Thickness melting temperatures are used.
code is the second two digits of the shaft size number.
CAUTION: Do not overheat!
These digits indicate the shaft wall thickness to the
closest one thousandth of an inch(cid:209)for example, in 2312, 3. Grip the point or insert with pliers and heat the shank
the 12 = 0.012". The wall thickness is the main factor in end just enough so that when it is pushed partly into
determining the shaft weight. For two shafts of the same the shaft, the ring of adhesive is melted. Push the point
stiffness, a larger diameter, thin-walled shaft will be or insert about 1(cid:218) 4 " (6˚mm) into the shaft.
much lighter than a smaller diameter, thicker walled CAUTION: Do not overheat points!
shaft.
4. Heat the exposed portion of the point or insert shank
Easton Aluminum Shaft Weight Groups just enough so a thin layer of hot melt adhesive can be
Easton aluminum shafts are classified by weight groups, applied to the exposed shank of the point or insert.
each with its own performance characteristics. There are 5. After applying the adhesive, heat and remelt the
shaft sizes in each weight group to match nearly every adhesive on the shank of the point or insert.
bow weight/arrow length combination.
6. Without delay, while the adhesive is still fluid, slowly
¥ UltraLite aluminum — .012" wall thickness
push the point or insert into the shaft until it seats
¥ SuperLite aluminum— .013" - .014" wall thickness
against the end of the shaft. Wipe off excess adhesive
¥ Lite aluminum — .015" - .016" wall thickness
on a paper towel before hot melt hardens.
¥ Standard aluminum — .017" - .020" wall thickness
Aluminum Shaft Components 19
R EMOVING P OINTS AND A LUMINUM 2. Lightly heat the end of the aluminum shaft for 3-5
I seconds over a small gas flame.
NSERTS
3. Grasp the point in the insert with pliers and try to pull
When removing an aluminum insert, first thread an RPS
the insert from the shaft.
Field or Target Point into the insert.
4. Repeat steps 1 and 2 until the adhesive bond is
1. Lightly heat the exposed end of the point for 3-5
destroyed by the heat and the insert pulls free.
seconds over a small gas flame.
Remember, excess heat will destroy the shaft.
CAUTION: Do not overheat the component or the
5. Immediately, while the shaft is still hot, clean the
shaft.
inside of the shaft by removing any adhesive residue
2. Immediately grip the point with a pair of pliers. with a bore cleaning brush or small blade.
3. Twist and pull out the point (and insert if any).
4. If the point or insert cannot be removed, reheat for 3- P A S
REPARING LUMINUM HAFTS FOR
5 seconds and try to remove again.
F
LETCHING
5. Repeat procedure #4 until adhesive softens just enough
to remove the component. Unless your fletching jig has an adjustable nock indexing
feature, you may choose to fletch your arrows with the
nocks temporarily installed. After fletching, properly
I C C
NSTALLING ARBON OMPOSITE index and bond the nocks so that your style of vanes
I NSERTS clears your particular arrow rest.
NOTE: If the nocks are installed without adhesive the
UNI and Super UNI Systems allow you to rotate the nock
MATERIALS NEEDED FOR INSTALLATION
OF CARBON COMPOSITE INSERTS to obtain proper alignment at any time.
¥ 91% isopropyl alcohol ¥ flexible, two-part, 24-hour Cleaning with Non-chlorinated Ajax¤ &
¥ paper towels epoxy (such as AAE epoxy)
¥ cotton swabs ¥ wood toothpick or match stick Water
1. Rub the shaft in the area to be fletched with wet Ajax
For an accurate, high-strength installation, be sure on a wet paper towel.
the shaft ends are cut square. Follow the shaft NOTE: Do not use chlorinated cleansers.
cutting instructions carefully.
2. Rinse the shaft and repeat cleaning until water no
1. Clean the inside of the shaft with a cotton longer beads, but (cid:210)sheets(cid:211) on the shaft surface.
swab dipped in 91% isopropyl alcohol to remove
Cleaning with Solvents
the fine cutting dust. Let the shaft dry thoroughly
before bonding. 1. Carefully wipe down just the area of the shaft to be
fletched with MEK, lacquer thinner, or acetone until
2. Evenly spread a drop of epoxy around the inside of
no residue shows on a clean white paper towel.
the first 1(cid:218) " of the shaft with a wood toothpick or match
4
stick. 2. For the best bond, follow with a wipe of 91% isopropyl
alcohol using a clean white paper towel.
NOTE: A twenty-four hour flexible epoxy such as
CAUTION: Do not use MEK, lacquer thinner, or ac-
AAE¤ Epoxy is best. Fast-drying epoxies are often
etone with the nock installed. Keep these solvents
brittle.
away from nocks, shaft identification marks, and UNI
3. Apply a small amount of adhesive to the entire surface Bushings. Use protective gloves to keep solvents from
of the insert. penetrating the skin and use proper ventilation.
4. Install the insert, rotating it as it is pushed slowly into NOTE: Petroleum solvents can accumulate between the
place. Wipe off excess adhesive. bushing and the shaft wall and weaken the adhesive
bond. Also, the vapors from trapped solvents could
5. Stand the shaft on the nock end while drying to
cause the polycarbonate A/C/E or 3-D Super Nocks
prevent epoxy from entering the threaded area of the
to fracture when shot. Be sure the shaft has dried
insert.
thoroughly before installing nocks.
Cleaning with 91% Isopropyl Alcohol
R C C
EMOVING ARBON OMPOSITE
(Recommended for shafts with UNI or Super UNI
I
NSERTS Bushings already installed)
1. Use 91% alcohol as a primary cleaner on shafts with
Carbon Composite Inserts can be removed by slowly
UNI or Super UNI Bushings installed. 91% alcohol
heating the shaft (aluminum shafts only) and breaking
will not affect the A/C/E or Super Nocks or the
down the bonding adhesive with heat.
bushing adhesive.
CAUTION: Do not overheat the shaft!
1. Put an RPS Field or Target Point into the insert.
20
Arrow Tuning and Maintenance Guide
F A S
LETCHING LUMINUM HAFTS
ALUMINUM/CARBON
COMPONENT
INSTALLATION
1. Because of the preapplied activator on Easton Dia-
mond Vanes, no cleaning is required if AAE Fastset“
Installing One-piece Points and
adhesive is used. If another brand of adhesive is used,
or for other brands of vanes, wipe the base of the Aluminum Inserts
vanes with MEK or lacquer thinner to remove any
mold release chemical from the vanes.
EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS NEEDED FOR
2. When preparing for fletching, observe these
INSTALLATION OF POINTS AND ALUMINUM INSERTS
precautions and instructions:
¥ 91% isopropyl alcohol ¥ Easton hot-melt
a. Do not touch cleaned areas of the shaft or vanes
¥ paper towels ¥ torch or burner
with your hands or other objects. ¥ cotton swabs
b. Fletch as soon as possible after the shaft has dried.
If shafts stand unfletched for over 8 hours, repeat
The instructions that follow can be used for either
the cleaning process.
One-piece Points or for aluminum inserts. For
c. Do not attempt to fletch on very humid days.
aluminum inserts, screw a point into the insert
3. Shafts cleaned as described above can be fletched before you begin installation.
directly using Saunders¤ NPV, Fletch-Tite¤, AAE
After cutting your A/C* Shaft to length as
Fastset¤, or similar fletching cement. For added
described, follow the point installation
adhesion, a thin dip of lacquer or coating compatible
procedure carefully to prevent overheating
with the cement can be used.
the point. Overheated points can destroy the shaft(cid:213)s
CAUTION: Do not dip shafts with UNI Bushings or epoxy bond between the carbon and the aluminum tube.
Super UNI Bushings in lacquer or use petroleum solvents Use only Easton hot-melt adhesive.
to clean the fletching surface. 1. Clean approximately two inches inside the point end
Notes on Fletching Aluminum Shafts of the shaft using a cotton swab dipped in 91%
alcohol. Repeat the process until a fresh cotton swab
1. Use Saunders¤ NPV, Fletch-Tite¤, AAE Fastset¤ or
is free of cutting dust residue. Let the shaft dry
similar fletching cement.
thoroughly before bonding.
2. Set the rear of the vane 1-11(cid:218) " from the bottom of the
4 2. Carefully heat a stick of Easton(cid:213)s hot-melt adhesive
nock groove.
over a small gas flame; then apply a ring of hot
3. Attach fletching at an offset to the centerline of the adhesive to the inside of the point end of the shaft.
shaft. To assure proper clearance, take into account CAUTION: Do not apply heat directly to A/C shafts.
the type of arrow rest being used. Do not use an angle
Use Easton(cid:213)s hot-melt adhesive only. The melting
of offset so great that the farthest right or farthest left
point of Easton(cid:213)s hot-melt adhesive is low enough that
corner of the fletching loses contact with the shaft.
the shaft will not be damaged during installation and
There should be no open spaces between the shaft
high enough to keep the point securely bonded during
and the ends of the base of the vane.
the frictional heating caused when the arrow penetrates
4. Allow cement to fully harden before shooting. Follow the target mat. Arrow points can come out in the
manufacturer(cid:213)s instructions for full cure time. target mat if lower melting temperature hot-melt
R F adhesives are used.
EMOVING LETCHING
3. Hold the end of the point with your fingers. (Do not
1. Carefully scrape off the vanes and excess glue with a
hold with pliers because it is then possible to overheat
dull knife.
the point.) Heat the exposed portion of the point or
2. Wipe fletching area with MEK or lacquer thinner to insert until you feel it getting warm. It should be just
remove vane and cement residue. hot enough to melt the adhesive.
CAUTION: Keep solvents away from the nock and CAUTION: Do not overheat points. If the point be-
shaft identification markings. comes too hot to hold in your fingers, it is too hot to
3. For the best bond, follow with a wipe of 91% put in the shaft. Set the point on a noncombustible
isopropyl alcohol using a clean paper towel. surface until cool.
4. Let dry and re-fletch. 4. Heat the hot-melt adhesive and apply a generous
layer of adhesive to the shank of the point or insert.
A N
TTACHING OCKS * (cid:210)A/C(cid:211) Shaft refers to all models of aluminum/carbon
See Installing Nock Systems later shafts. Current models are X10, A/C/E, A/C/C, and
in this guide. HyperSpeed.
Aluminum/Carbon Shaft Components 21
5. After applying the adhesive, quickly remelt the NOTE: A twenty-four hour flexible epoxy such as
adhesive on the shank of the point or insert. Reheat it AAE¤ Epoxy is best. Fast-drying epoxies are often
enough that when it is pushed into the shaft, the ring brittle.
of adhesive in the shaft is melted.
3. Apply a small amount of adhesive to the entire
6. Without delay, while the adhesive is still fluid, install surface of the insert.
the point or insert into the shaft with a clockwise
4. Install the insert, rotating it as it is pushed slowly
twisting motion until it seats against the end of the
into place. Wipe off excess adhesive.
shaft.
5. Stand the shaft on the nock end while drying to
NOTE: Do not force a point or insert into an A/C shaft.
prevent epoxy from entering the threaded area.
7. With a paper towel quickly wipe off excess adhesive
while it is still hot. Removing Carbon Composite
CAUTION: Do not apply heat directly to A/C shafts or Inserts
overheat points! Overheating points installed in A/C
Carbon Composite Inserts are permanently installed
shafts can destroy the bond between the carbon and
with epoxy and cannot be removed without risking
the aluminum tube. Applying heat directly to A/C
damage to the shaft. Attempting to remove the inserts
shafts can destroy the carbon fiber/epoxy matrix.
voids the shaft guarantee.
Removing Points and Aluminum
Preparing Shafts for Fletching
Inserts
1. Grasp the shaft about 1(cid:218) " back from the component.
2
There should be 1(cid:218) " to 3(cid:218) " of shaft between your
2 4
fingers and the component. (Screw a point into the
Unless your fletching jig has an adjustable nock indexing
aluminum insert before heating.)
feature, you should fletch your arrows with the nocks
2. Lightly heat only the exposed portion of the
temporarily installed without adhesive. After fletching,
component in a small flame for 3-5 seconds.
index the nocks properly so the fletching clears your
CAUTION: Do not apply heat to A/C shafts directly.
arrow rest. If you wish, use one of the recommended
3. When you feel the shaft just start to warm under your adhesives to attach your nocks (See pages 26-29).
fingers, grip the component with a pair of pliers. Twist
NOTE: If no adhesive is used the UNI System allows
and pull on the component to determine if the adhesive
you to rotate the nock to obtain proper alignment at any
has melted. (Or use a small wire hook to remove the
time.
UNI Bushing.)
1. Carefully wipe down just the fletching area of the
4. If the component does not move, continue to heat in
shaft with M.E.K. or lacquer thinner using a clean,
five second increments and twist the component after
white paper towel. If your nock is already permanently
each heating period with pliers until it rotates and can
installed, use 91% isopropyl alcohol in place of all
be pulled free of the shaft.
other solvents. Continue wiping the surface with
solvent until no dirt or carbon residue shows on a
Installing Carbon Composite
clean portion of the paper towel. Remember to use
Inserts protective gloves to keep solvents off the skin and use
proper ventilation. Do not soak carbon or aluminum/
carbon shafts in any solvents.
EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS NEEDED FOR
INSTALLATION OF CARBON COMPOSITE INSERTS CAUTION: Do not use lacquer thinner, M.E.K., or
¥ 91% isopropyl alcohol ¥ flexible two-part, 24-hour epoxy acetone with the nock installed. Keep these solvents
¥ paper towels (such as AAE epoxy) away from nocks and shaft identification markings.
¥ cotton swabs ¥ wood toothpick or match stick
Petroleum solvents could accumulate between the
bushing and shaft wall and weaken the adhesive
For an accurate, high-strength installation, be sure
bond. Also, the vapors from trapped solvents could
shaft ends are cut square. Follow shaft cutting
cause the polycarbonate A/C/E Nocks to fracture.
instructions carefully.
2. For the best bond, follow with a wipe of 91% isopropyl
1. Clean the inside of the shaft with a cotton swab
alcohol using a clean paper towel.
dipped in 91% isopropyl alcohol to remove the
fine cutting dust. Let the shaft dry thoroughly 3. Because of the preapplied activator on Easton
before bonding. Diamond Vanes, no cleaning is required if AAE
Fastset“ adhesive is used. If another brand of adhesive
2. Evenly spread a drop of epoxy around the inside
is used, or for other brands of vanes, wipe the base of
of the first 1(cid:218)" of the shaft with a wood toothpick or
4 the vanes with MEK or lacquer thinner to remove any
match stick.
mold release chemical from the vanes.
22
Arrow Tuning and Maintenance Guide
When preparing for fletching, observe these precautions 4. Allow cement to fully harden before shooting. Follow
and instructions: manufacturer(cid:213)s instructions for full cure time.
a. Do not touch cleaned areas with hands or other
objects. Removing Fletching
b. Fletch soon after cleaning. If shafts stand unfletched
CAUTION: Do not soak any carbon shaft in solvents to
for over 8 hours, repeat the cleaning process.
remove the fletching or fletching adhesive. The sol-
c. Do not attempt to fletch on very humid days.
vents will slowly absorb into the shaft and weaken the
resin that bonds the carbon fibers.
Fletching A/C Shafts
1a.When using instant adhesives, carefully peel off the
vanes with a very dull knife and remove most of the
EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS NEEDED FOR glue, being careful not to scrape deep enough to
FLETCHING
damage the carbon fibers near the surface of the shaft.
¥ 91% isopropyl alcohol ¥ fletching jig
1b.If you(cid:213)re using standard fletching cements, pull the
¥ paper towels ¥ fletching adhesive
vanes or feathers off by hand or with pliers.
2. Wipe fletching area with lacquer thinner to remove
Fletching for A/C target shafts should be as small as remaining glue residue. Do a final wipe with 91%
necessary to get good flight and grouping. Fletching for isopropyl alcohol.
A/C hunting shafts should be large enough to stabilize
CAUTION: Keep solvents away from the nock and
the size and weight of the broadhead you use. Remember
shaft logo. See the CAUTION about solvents under
to always clean the shaft before attaching any style of
(cid:210)Preparing Shafts for Fletching.(cid:211)
fletching.
3. Let the shafts dry before refletching per the instructions
above.
1. For Spin-Wing Vanes¤ use the 2-sided adhesive tape
supplied. For Easton Diamond Vanes no cleaning is
Pulling Carbon Shafts from
required if AAE Fastset“ or any cyanoacrylate
adhesive is used. When installing other brands of Target Mats
vanes, wipe the base of the vanes with MEK or
Particles from some target mats may stick
lacquer thinner to remove any mold release chemical.
on the shaft because of the heat generated
For plastic vanes or feathers, cyanoacrylate adhesives during the frictional slowing of these high
such as Bohning¤ Instant Super Fletch-Tite, AAE speed arrows. This frictional bonding
Fastset¤ or, other instant fletching adhesives give the may make the shaft difficult to remove
most secure bond. Saunders N.P.V.¤ or Bohning from the mat. Several suggestions to help
Fletch-Tite¤ cement may also be used. Shafts must be relieve this problem are:
properly cleaned before fletching.
1. Put a coating of hard paste wax or rub a bar of hard
CAUTION: soap on the point end of the shaft as needed.
a. Cyanoacrylate instant adhesives (Super Glues)
2. Use a cloth impregnated with silicone wax or similar
bond extremely well to carbon fiber, which can
material or use Saunders Friction Fighter¤ silicone
make vanes very difficult to remove without
applicator to wipe the lower quarter of the shaft. Be
damage to the shaft surface. Easton recommends
careful not to use too much or too often as the silicone
testing the adhesive on one A/C shaft before
will prevent adhesive from adhering to the shaft if it
fletching an entire set to be sure the surface of the
migrates to the fletching area.
shaft is not damaged when the fletching is removed.
b. Some instant adhesives are brittle and can fracture 3. Use a piece of natural rubber sheet or a commercially
if vanes are hit by another arrow. Loose vanes can available arrow puller to grip the arrow and make
drastically affect the flight and grouping of an pulling easier.
arrow.
NOTE: Always pull the arrow straight out of the mat.
2. Set the rear of the vane 1-11(cid:218)" from the bottom of the Make sure no one is behind you when pulling arrows.
4
nock groove.
Attaching Nocks
3. Attach fletching at an offset to the centerline of the
shaft. To assure proper clearance, take into account See Installing Nock Systems later in this guide.
the type of arrow rest being used. Do not use an angle
of offset so great that the farthest right or farthest left
corner of the fletching losses contact with the shaft.
There should be no open spaces between the shaft
and the ends of the base of the vane.
Aluminum/Carbon Components - ICS Components 23
Easton Broadhead Adapter
CARBON ICS
Rings
COMPONENT
The Easton Broadhead Adapter Rings were de-
INSTALLATION veloped for carbon shafts to provide a larger
mounting surface when using broadheads with O-
ring and other compression-based blade retention sys-
Carbon Beman ICS* Shafts tems. The larger mounting surface allows O-rings to
compress rather than roll of the top of the small diameter
Some models of Beman(cid:213)s Carbon shafts feature the inserts. In addition, the adapter ring provides a smooth,
Internal Component System (ICS). These shafts are tapered fit from the broadhead ferrule to the insert. Sizes
made in a larger, more traditional diameter to accommo- are the same as the A/C/C point/insert sizes. Beman ICS
date internally fitted nocks and points. Even the industry Hunter uses the -60 adapter.
standard RPS threaded points can be used. These shafts
provide all of the benefits of carbon(cid:213)s light weight and Removing Points and Inserts
straightness without the difficulties associated with nar-
Points and inserts installed with epoxy are permanently
row diameter shafts and externally fitted components.
bonded and cannot be removed.
Currently, Beman(cid:213)s large diameter models of carbon
shafts are the ICS Hunter and the Beman ICS.
Installing Points and Inserts
EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS NEEDED FOR Fletching ICS Shafts
INSTALLATION OF POINTS AND INSERTS
¥ 91% isopropyl alcohol ¥ flexible two-part, 24-hour epoxy When preparing for fletching, observe these precautions
¥ paper towels (such as AAE epoxy) and instructions:
¥ cotton swabs ¥ wood toothpick or match stick
1. Do not touch cleaned areas with hands or other
objects.
Install with Epoxy
2. Fletch as soon as possible after cleaning. If shafts stand
Note that the ICS Hunter shaft can be fitted only with ICS unfletched for over 8 hours, repeat the cleaning
Hunter inserts and RPS points. The Beman ICS process.
(target) uses either ACC-60 one piece points or an 3. Do not attempt to fletch on very humid days.
ACC-60 RPS insert fitted with RPS points.
1. With a cotton tipped applicator (Q- Fletching instructions are the same as those used for
Tip) dipped in 91% isopropyl alcohol, Easton A/C shafts. For instructions see pages 21-22.
remove the carbon dust from the inside
of the tube. Attaching Nocks
2. Put a small ring of flexible, two-part,
See Installing Nock Systems later in this guide.
24-hour cure epoxy into the end of the shaft to a depth
of 1(cid:218) ", so it can coat the inside of the shaft as the point SAFETY AND HUNTING
4
is pushed in. A match stick or toothpick may be used.
PRECAUTIONS
Do not put too much epoxy in the shaft.
3. Evenly coat the exposed insert or point shank with
Shooting Precautions
epoxy. If installing an insert, it is easier to handle if an
RPS field point is first threaded into the insert. WARNING: Carbon shafts should be checked for
cracks or other damage before shooting. Although the
4. Rotate the shaft while slowly inserting the point or
Beman shaft is the most durable and strongest carbon
insert into the shaft. Once the point or insert is fully
shaft produced, it is not made with a reinforcing alumi-
seated, rotate the shaft two more complete revolutions
num core (like X10, A/C/E and A/C/C shafts) and is, like
to ensure a thorough covering of epoxy on the point
any carbon shaft, more susceptible to cracking or break-
or insert shank and inside the shaft.
ing if the arrow hits a hard object, or is hit by another
5. Wipe off excess adhesive. arrow. Any carbon shaft should be checked for cracking
6. Stand the shaft with the point up, in an exactly vertical after each shot.
position. This maintains correct alignment of the Procedure
point and also prevents adhesive from flowing into
Grip the shaft with one hand near the point and the other
the threaded portion of the insert. Allow the epoxy to
hand near the fletching. Rotate the arrow while bending
fully cure.
it between the hands. If it feels flexible (rubbery), makes
NOTE: Do not use hot melt adhesive on carbon shafts.
a creaking sound, or rotates strangely, do not shoot the
* (cid:210)ICS(cid:211) refers to all models of Beman shafts featuring an arrow again. It could fracture upon release and cause
internal component system. serious injury to the shooter.
24
Arrow Tuning and Maintenance Guide
6. Stand the shaft with the point up, in an exactly vertical
EXTERNAL
position. To maintain correct alignment of the point,
COMPONENT it must remain vertical and not lean at an angle during
the cure time. Allow the epoxy to fully cure.
INSTALLATION
Removing Target Points
P S A If installed with the recommended epoxy, one-piece
OINTS AND TANDARD DAPTERS
points are permanent and cannot be removed without
Some models of carbon Beman shafts utilize a compo- damage to the shaft.
nent system that fits over the outside of the shaft. This
style of attachment provides protection to the exposed
ends of the carbon fiber filaments and adds strength to Installing Standard Adapters
the shaft. To accommodate this, there are two methods
of point attachment.
EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS NEEDED FOR
Beman One-Piece Target Points(cid:209)These points have an INSTALLATION OF STANDARD ADAPTER
outside diameter which fits over the outside of the shaft ¥ 180 or 240 grit sandpaper ¥ flexible, two-part epoxy
¥ 91% isopropyl alcohol ¥ toothpicks or wooden
to provide protection and strength. In addition, the point
¥ cotton swabs match sticks
shank fits inside the shaft to ensure good alignment. ¥ paper towels
Beman(cid:213)s Standard Adapter(cid:209)This attaches over the end
Standard Adapters are installed to provide a method of
of the shaft and provides a threaded fitting for industry
attaching RPS Points and broadheads. Before installing
standard 8-32 RPS screw-in points or broadheads.
adapters, be sure that the shafts have been properly
chamfered if required (see pages 17-18).
Installing One-Piece Points
1.Lightly sand the surface of the last 5(cid:218) " of the
8
point end of the shaft with 180 or 240-grit
sandpaper. Precutting the sandpaper into 5(cid:218) " wide
EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS NEEDED FOR 8
strips simplifies this step.
INSTALLATION OF ONE-PIECE POINTS
¥ 91% isopropyl alcohol ¥ flexible two-part, 24-hour epoxy 2.Wipe the front of the shaft with 91% or higher
¥ paper towels (i.e. AAE epoxy or Beman epoxy) concentration of isopropyl alcohol (available at
¥ cotton swabs ¥ wood toothpick or match stick
most pharmacies) until a clean paper towel shows
no sign of residue.
Installing with Epoxy NOTE: Rubbing alcohol should not be used. It
Follow the instructions below for a secure and perma- contains oils which may inhibit the adhesive
bond.
nent bond:
3. Using a cotton swab, wipe the inside surface of the
1. Wipe both the front 1(cid:218) " of the shaft and the one-
4
adapter with 91% isopropyl alcohol.
piece point shank with 91% isopropyl alcohol until
NOTE: Be sure the shaft and components are com-
a clean paper towel shows no residue. Let dry
pletely dry before bonding.
completely before bonding. NOTE: Rubbing
alcohol should not be used. It contains oils which 4. Thoroughly coat the front 1(cid:218) " of the shaft with flexible,
4
could inhibit the adhesive bond. two-part, 24-hour cure epoxy such as Arizona Archery
Enterprises¤ epoxy. Do not put epoxy on the end of
2. Put a small ring of flexible, two-part, 24-hour
the shaft because the excess epoxy could be pushed
cure epoxy into the end of the shaft, so it can coat the
into the threads of the Adapter.
inside of the shaft as the point is pushed in. Do not
put too much epoxy in the shaft. A thin coat is 5. Spread a thin film of epoxy on the front 3(cid:218)" of the
8
enough. inside surface of the adapter with a toothpick or wood
match stick. Be careful not to push epoxy into the
3. Thoroughly coat the exposed point shank with epoxy.
threaded section of the outsert.
4. While rotating the point, slowly insert the point shank
6. While rotating the outsert, slowly push it over the end
into the shaft. Once the point is fully seated, rotate the
point two more complete revolutions to ensure a of the shaft. Once the outsert is fully seated, rotate the
adapter two more complete revolutions to ensure a
thorough covering of epoxy on the point shank and
thorough covering of the shaft and component with
inside the shaft.
epoxy.
5. Wipe off excess adhesive.
7. Wipe off excess adhesive.
External Component Systems 25
Fletching Carbon Shafts
8. Check for alignment by rolling the shaft on the wheels
of an arrow straightener or on the top of a clean, flat
table. If a visible wobble is present, pull the adapter EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS
about halfway off and then rotate and push in until NEEDED FOR FLETCHING
fully seated and check again. If the adapter is still
¥ 180 or 240 grit sandpaper (optional) ¥ fletching jig
crooked, rotate the outsert about one-quarter turn at ¥ 91% isopropyl alcohol ¥ paper towels
a time until it is straight. ¥ fletching adhesive
9. Stand the shaft with the adapter up, in an exactly
The fletching used for the target shafts should be as small
vertical position. To maintain correct alignment of
as necessary to get good flight and grouping. Fletching
the adapter, it must remain vertical and not lean at an
for the hunting shafts should be large enough to stabilize
angle during the cure time. Allow the epoxy to fully
the size and weight of the broadhead you use. Remem-
cure.
ber to always clean the shaft before attaching any style of
NOTE: Because shaft damage could occur from excess fletching.
heat, do not use hot melt adhesive.
1. For Easton Diamond Vanes, no cleaning is required
if AAE Fastset“ or any cyanoacrylate adhesive is
Removing Standard Adapters
used. When installing other brands of vanes, wipe the
Once installed with the recommended epoxy, Standard base of the vanes with MEK or lacquer thinner to
Adapters are permanently attached and cannot be re- remove any mold release chemical.
moved without damage to the shaft. For plastic vanes or feathers, cyanoacrylate adhesives
such as Bohning¤ Instant Super Fletch-Tite, AAE
CAUTION: Do not soak carbon shafts in any type of
Fastset¤, or other instant fletching adhesives give the
solvent to remove components or adhesive residue. The
most secure bond. Saunders N.P.V.¤ or Bohning
solvents slowly absorb into the shaft and weaken the
Fletch-Tite¤ cement may also be used. Shafts must be
resin which bonds the carbon fibers.
properly prepared before fletching.
CAUTION: CyanoacrIylate instant adhesives bond
Preparing Shafts for Fletching extremely well to carbon fiber, which can make vanes
very difficult to remove without damage to the shaft
surface. Testing the adhesive on one shaft before
fletching an entire set is recommended.
2. Set the rear of the vane 1-11(cid:218) " from the bottom of the
4
Nock groove. If using a Standard Adapter, set the rear
When preparing for fletching, observe these precautions
of the vane 1(cid:218) - 1(cid:218)" from the end of the adapter.
16 8
and instructions:
1. Do not touch cleaned areas with hands or other 3. Attach fletching at an offset to the centerline of the
objects. shaft. Do not use an angle of offset so great that the
farthest right or farthest left corner of the fletching
2. Fletch as soon as possible after cleaning. If shafts
loses contact with the shaft. There should be no open
stand unfletched for over 8 hours, repeat the cleaning
spaces between the shaft and the ends of the base of
process.
the vane. To assure proper clearance, take into account
3. Do not attempt to fletch on very humid days. the type of arrow rest being used.
If you are using Beman G-Nocks (same as Easton A/C/C Removing Fletching
(cid:210)G(cid:211) Nocks) with a Standard Adapter it is best to fletch
your arrows with the nocks temporarily installed without CAUTION: Do not soak any carbon shaft in solvents to
adhesive. After fletching, index the nocks properly so remove the fletching or fletching adhesive. This can
that your style of fletching properly clears your arrow weaken the resin that bonds the carbon fibers.
rest. If you wish, use an appropriate adhesive to attach
1. When using instant adhesives, carefully peel off the
your nocks (see pages 27-29).
vanes with a knife (not razor sharp) and remove most
1. Carefully wipe down just the fletching area of the of the glue, being careful not to scrape deep enough
shaft with 91% isopropyl alcohol using a clean, white to damage the carbon fibers along the shaft(cid:213)s surface.
paper towel. MEK or lacquer thinner is not used
2. If using standard fletching cements, pull the vanes or
because it is incompatible with the glues used for
feathers off by hand or with pliers.
attaching the Standard Adapter and with the plastic
materials used in either style of nock. 3. Wipe fletching area with lacquer thinner to remove
any remaining glue residue. Do a final wipe with 91%
2. If using Saunders¤ or Fletch-Tite¤ cement to attach
isopropyl alcohol.
your vanes, the fletching area must first be very lightly
parallel sanded with 180 or 240-grit sandpaper then CAUTION: Keep solvents away from both the nock
cleaned with 91% alcohol. and the shaft logo.
4. Let the shafts dry before refletching.
26
Arrow Tuning and Maintenance Guide
Removing Broken Conventional
INSTALLING NOCK
Nocks
SYSTEMS
1. Heat the conventional nock over a small flame.
2. When the nock starts to soften, gently grip the
Nock Styles softened plastic with a pair of pliers and twist off.
There are three types of nocking systems used on Easton 3. Clean the nock swage (or UNI Extension) by
and Beman shafts(cid:209)Taper fit (conventional nock system), wiping the taper with a clean cloth soaked in
Internal fit (includes UNI System and ICS System), lacquer thinner until it is clean of all nock and glue
External fit (used on some models of Beman Carbon residue.
shafts). Because shafts can be fitted with more than one
CAUTION: Nocks should not be cut off with a knife. Do
style of nock system, all styles are covered in this one
not sand and do not scrape the shaft nock taper. Cutting
section.
into the taper or distorting the precision cone shape by
uneven sanding or scraping can make it difficult for
CONVENTIONAL NOCKS
nocks to be attached straight.
(Taper Fit System)
Conventional nocks (taper-fit) are installed on the
UNI SYSTEM
aluminum shaft models featuring swaged tapered
nock ends.
Attaching Conventional Nocks
on the Shaft Universal Nock Installation (UNI) System
Use the following procedure to attach conventional (Internal Fit)
nocks to shafts with a swaged nock taper.
Aluminum shafts sizes smaller than 2012, as well as most
1. If the shaft has been dipped in lacquer or an old nock sizes of A/C/C shafts, use the Standard UNI Bushing
has been removed, use MEK or lacquer thinner on a which has an inside diameter sized to fit A/C/E (cid:210)G(cid:211)
clean, white paper towel and wipe the tapered end of Series nocks. Aluminum shaft sizes 2012 and larger use
the shaft until it is clean and free of old glue or paint. the Super UNI Bushing. This has a larger inside diameter
Hold the shaft in one hand and rotate it against the which fits the Super Nock and the 3-D Super Nock.
folded paper towel. Repeat this until all lacquer, glue A/C/E shafts all have the same inside diameter as that of
or nock remains have been removed. a Standard UNI Bushing, as does the -00 size A/C/C
shaft, so no adapter is required. A nock can be inserted
CAUTION: Nocks should not be cut off with a knife. Do
directly into the shaft.
not sand and do not scrape the shaft(cid:213)s nock taper.
Installing Carbon UNI Bushings
Uneven sanding or cutting into the taper by scraping
can distort the precision cone shape and can make it Carbon UNI Bushings should be installed with 24-
difficult for nocks to be attached straight. hour flexible epoxy. Installation of Carbon UNI
2. Apply a large drop of fletching cement to the clean Bushings is similar to the installation of carbon
nock taper surface. composite inserts described on page 19.
The pencil technique for holding the bushing
3. Spread an even layer of cement around the taper with
during installation, as illustrated on the following
your finger tip.
page, may also be used, but do not attempt to use hot
4. Quickly, before the cement can dry, press the nock on melt. Use only flexible epoxy on carbon composite
the taper. components.
5. Once the nock is on the taper, rotate the nock several
times counterclockwise to evenly spread the cement. Removing Carbon UNI Bushings
Then, immediately rotate the nock clockwise (using a
1. To remove the bushing, select an Allen wrench that is
light downward pressure) until the nock groove is
slightly larger than the hole diameter. Heat the wrench
properly positioned and the nock is firmly seated on
over a flame until hot enough to melt into the bushing.
the taper.
Push it into the hole in the bushing and let it cool.
6. Carefully wipe excess cement from the nock base. 2. Lightly heat the end of the shaft for 3-5 seconds over
Check the nock for straightness and allow it to set at a small gas flame.
least two hours before shooting. 3. Grasp the wrench with pliers and rotate to break the
bushing free.
4. Repeat steps 2 and 3 until the adhesive bond is
destroyed by the heat and the insert pulls free. Re-
member, excess heat will destroy the shaft.
27
Installing Nock Systems
Installing Aluminum UNI Bushings Installing A/C/E (cid:210)G(cid:211) Nocks,
X10 Nocks, and Super Nocks
EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS NEEDED FOR
INSTALLATION OF UNI OR SUPER UNI BUSHINGS (Directly into Shafts or UNI Bushings)
¥ 91% isopropyl alcohol ¥ Easton hot-melt
X10, A/C/E (cid:210)G(cid:211) Nocks, and Super Nocks are
¥ paper towels ¥ torch or gas burner
¥ cotton swabs ¥ pencil for (cid:210)holding tool(cid:211) designed to be installed and shot without adhe-
sive. If you prefer to use an adhesive, use a light
removable glue such as Carter(cid:213)s¤ rubber cement
1.Lightly chamfer the inside of the core tube as
(for gluing paper) or FaberCastell¤ Glue Stick.
described previously in the cutting instructions.
Certain adhesives contain solvents that attack the
2.Clean inside the nock end of the shaft polycarbonate nock material. When this occurs,
approximately one inch using a cotton swab the nock becomes brittle and can break when
dipped in 91% alcohol. Repeat the process until a shot. Do not use typical fletching cements which
fresh cotton swab is free of residue or cutting dust. Let usually contain M.E.K. (Methyl Ethyl Ketone),
the shaft dry thoroughly before bonding. toluene, acetone, or lacquer thinner. To determine if you
3. Heat a stick of Easton(cid:213)s hot-melt adhesive over a small are using a compatible adhesive, use the compatibility
gas flame; apply a ring of adhesive inside of the shaft. test described at the end of the Nock Installation section.
4. Twist the bushing onto the end of a sharpened wooden Installing without Glue
pencil (see illustration below).
1.Push the nock into the shaft by hand or
5. Using the pencil as a UNI Bushing (cid:210)holding tool,(cid:211) with a nock tool.
heat the bushing just enough to apply a thin coating of
2.Rotate the nock while inserting it into the
hot-melt adhesive on the shank.
shaft.
CAUTION: If the wood pencil chars, the bushing is
NOTE: Do not attempt to rotate the nock
overheated. Super Nock by inserting a coin or other instrument
Tool
6. Lightly reheat the bushing to melt the adhesive and between the ears of the nock.
quickly insert it completely into the shaft. NOTE: A tighter fit is used with Super Nocks because of
their use as a hunting nock. As a result, a nock
7. Quickly wipe off excess adhesive, then remove the
installation tool is necessary when installing Super
pencil after the adhesive has solidified.
Nocks. See your dealer for Easton’s Super Nock Tool.
CAUTION: Do not apply a flame directly to any
Installing A/C/E and Super Nocks with
Carbon or Aluminum Carbon shaft.
Rubber Cement
1. Put a thin coat of Carter(cid:213)s rubber cement or
Apply ring of adhesive to FaberCastell glue stick on the shank of the nock.
inside of shaft.
2. Slowly insert the nock into the UNI or Super UNI
Bushing while rotating the nock.
3. Immediately remove the nock and let it air dry for 5-
Twist bushing onto pencil.
Heat bushing and apply glue. 10 seconds.
4. Reinsert the nock into the bushing.
Reheat bushing and push into arrow shaft. 5. Rotate to get proper nock alignment if shafts are
fletched.
Alternate Procedure Using
Cyanoacrylate Adhesive
1. Slip the nock into the shaft until there is approxi-
mately 3(cid:218) " (5˚mm) remaining before the nock is fully
16
Instant-Set Glue Method
seated.
Some brands of quick setting glues are made to remain 2. Place a very thin layer of instant adhesive around the
flexible after curing. These glues can be used to bond exposed area. (Do not cover entire shank as it will
UNI Bushing to shafts. Bohning Instant Super Fletch make removal difficult.) Properly align the nock with
Tight II“ and AAE Fastset Gel“ are two such glues. the fletching before fully seating the nock.
CAUTION: This adhesive bonds very quickly.
To glue, spread a thin film of glue on the bushing. Start
the bushing into the end of the shaft, then quickly push 3. Push the nock straight in, without turning, until seated.
the end of the shaft against a wooden bench or block of
4. Hold for five seconds or until the adhesive sets.
wood. The insert must be pushed into the shaft quickly
with a single stroke, before the glue can set up.
28
Arrow Tuning and Maintenance Guide
Alternate Procedure Using Thin Plastic Screw or Cup Hook Method
Film If a Multi Nock Tool is not available, use this method to
remove a nock that has broken off flush with the bushing.
Another method for installing A/C/E and Super Nocks
into UNI and Super UNI Bushings is to use a very thin 1. Twist a small screw or a cup holder into the hollow
plastic film such as plastic food shopping bags, dry core of the nock shank.
cleaning bags, etc. The film provides an effective method 2. Pull the screw out with pliers to remove the nock
for securing the nock in the shaft and also allows easy shank.
removal.
Allen Wrench Method
1. Place a small piece (3(cid:218)" circle) of the plastic film over
4 A/C/E nocks made prior to 1995 did not have a hollow
the end of the nock to be inserted into the bushing.
core in the shank. To remove a pre-1995 A/C/E nock
2. Gently push the nock to get it started into the bushing. that has broken off flush with the bushing, use the
3. Push and twist the nock until it is fully seated against following method.
the bushing. 1. Grip a small Allen wrench with pliers and heat it until
4. Remove any excess plastic film from around the nock it is hot enough to melt into the shank of the nock.
with thumb and finger nail. 2. Push the heated Allen wrench into the broken nock
shank.
If the shank of the nock punches through the plastic 3. After the nock shank cools and solidifies on the Allen
rather than stretching it into the gap between the nock wrench, twist the Allen wrench with pliers to break
shank and shaft, try a thinner plastic or put a slight nock shank loose, then pull out.
chamfer on the end of the nock shank.
BEMAN OVERNOCKS
(External Nocks)
Some Beman carbon shafts require nock systems that fit
A/C/E Nock A/C/E Nock
over the outside of the shaft. Beman provides two ways
with 45(cid:176) chamfer
to accomplish this: The Beman Overnock, which fits
over the end of the shaft, and the Nock Outsert, which is
an adapter that fits over the end of the shaft and allows an
Easton A/C/E (cid:210)G(cid:211) nock to be used.
To chamfer the end of the shank, simply hold the nock at Installing Beman Overnocks
the top and pull the nock shank at a 45(cid:176) angle across a flat
sheet of sandpaper, or along a fine file, while rotating the Overnocks can be installed either without
nock. This procedure will allow the nock to (cid:210)grip(cid:211) the adhesive or with Carter(cid:213)s¤ rubber cement or
plastic rather than punching a hole through it. FaberCastell¤ glue stick. Do not use typical
fletching cements which usually contain solvents
Removing Broken incompatible with polycarbonate nocks. To be
sure you are using a compatible adhesive, select
A/C/E Nocks & Super Nocks
adhesives that are recommended for A/C/E or
Super Nocks or that have passed the compatibility
Pliers
test described on page 30.
Gripping the nock with a pair of pliers, twist and
1. If desired, apply a thin layer of compatible adhesive
pull until the adhesive bond, if any, has loosened
to the last 1(cid:218)" of the nock end of the shaft.
2
and the nock pulls free.
2. Slowly push the nock on the shaft while rotating one
Multi Nock Tool full turn.
3. Check the nock for straightness by rolling on the
If the nock is broken off flush with the bushing or
wheels of an arrow straightener or on a clean, flat
shaft end, use Easton(cid:213)s Multi-Nock Tool with
surface. If the nock is not straight, rotate the nock and
Extractor. To remove, thread the tool down
check it. Repeat this process until the nock is straight.
through the broken nock into the hollow core of
the nock shank as shown in the illustration, and Removing Overnocks
pull the nock out.
1. Lightly grip the body of the nock with pliers and twist
off.
Multi-Nock 2. If pliers don(cid:213)t work, cut the nock off with a dull knife,
Tool being careful not to cut into the shaft surface.
3. Clean off any nock or adhesive residue with a dull
knife. Do not cut into the carbon material. Wipe shaft
well with 91% isopropyl alcohol before rebonding
another nock.
Installing Nock Systems 29
Installing Nock Outserts Removing Broken A/C/E Nocks
See methods described on previous page.
EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS NEEDED FOR
INSTALLATION OF NOCK OUTSERTS
¥ 180 or 240 grit sandpaper ¥ flexible, two-part epoxy Adhesives for Nocks, Nock
¥ 91% isopropyl alcohol or cyanoacrylate adhesive
¥ paper towels ¥ toothpicks or wooden Outserts, and UNI or Super
¥ cotton swabs match sticks
UNI Bushings
Follow the instructions for installing Standard
Adapters on page 25, however, only sand the The following chart lists the components that make up the
shaft 1(cid:218) " from the nock end. Cyanoacrylate adhe- nock systems, and suggests glues that may be used for each.
2
sives such as Bohning¤ Instant Super Fletch-Tite, The installation procedures for each of the components are
AAE Fastset¤, Loctite¤ 454 (or Super Glue¤) can covered in the accompanying text.
also be used to install Nock Outserts. These
adhesives bond very quickly and only a small
amount of adhesive is required. ADHESIVES FOR NOCK SYSTEM COMPONENTS
COMPONENT ADHESIVE FOR INSTALLATION
Removing Nock Outserts
UNI Bushing or Aluminum Shafts(cid:209)Easton Hot Melt
Super UNI Bushing A/C* Shafts(cid:209)Easton Hot Melt, 24-hour
If installed with the recommended epoxy, these outserts
Epoxy, or flexible cyanoacrylates
are permanent and cannot be removed without damage
to the shaft. Carbon UNI Bushing Use 24-hour flexible epoxy or flexible
or Carbon Insert cyanoacrylates (Bohning or AAE)
Installing G-Nocks in Nock Can be installed without adhesive,
A/C/E Nock, or with Carter(cid:213)s rubber cement,
Outserts Super Nock, or FaberCastell Glue Stick, flexible
3-D Super Nock cyanoacrylate adhesive (Bohning
G-Nocks (A/C/E (cid:210)G(cid:211) Nocks) have a precision, or AAE), or Thin plastic film
snug fit in the outsert and a uniform fit on the
string. For Target or Field shooting, they can be Conventional Nock: Saunders NPV¤, Fletch-Tite¤
Flex Bond¤
shot without adhesive or with a low-strength adhe-
sive that will ensure that the nocks do not rotate. If Can be installed without adhesive, or with
Overnock Carter(cid:213)s¤ rubber cement, FaberCastell Glue
you prefer to use an adhesive, you should use a
Stick, or similar glues.
light removable adhesive like Carter(cid:213)s¤ rubber
cement (for gluing paper) or FaberCastell¤ Glue Stick (or Nock Outsert Use 24-hour flexible epoxy or cyanoacrylate
Standard Adapter
an adhesive that contains Naphtha and/or Hexane).
* (cid:210)A/C(cid:211) Shaft refers to all models of aluminum/carbon shafts.
CAUTION: Do not use typical fletching cements that
Current models are X10, A/C/E, A/C/C, and HyperSpeed.
usually contain M.E.K. (Methyl Ethyl Ketone), toluene,
acetone, or lacquer thinner on A/C/E Nocks, Overnocks
Checking Conventional Nock
or Nock Outserts. Certain adhesives contain solvents
that attack polycarbonate nocks. When this occurs, nocks Straightness
become brittle and can break when shot. To be sure you
are using a compatible glue, use the adhesive compatibility
Align with
test on page 30.
axis of shaft
1. Rest the shaft on the nails of your thumb and index
finger (with the point against the palm of your other
hand) and blow against the fletching. As the arrow
Beman Shaft Nock Outsert G-Nock spins, observe the nock rotation. A straight nock will
spin without any wobble.
2. Roll the shaft on an arrow shaft straightener or a flat,
Procedure smooth surface and watch for any nock wobble.
3. Use commercially available nock checking tools such
1. Apply a thin coat of the Carter(cid:213)s¤ rubber cement or
FaberCastell¤ glue stick or other compatible adhesive as the Bj(cid:154)rn Bengtson nock alignment jig.
on the shank of the nock.
If the nock is crooked, before the cement sets twist and
2. Slowly insert the nock into the outsert while rotating
press the nock on the taper and check again. If it is still
the nock.
crooked, remove the nock, clean the taper and install
3. Rotate to get proper nock alignment. another nock.
30
Arrow Tuning and Maintenance Guide
Shooting Precautions
ADDITIONAL
(All Types of Carbon Arrows)
INFORMATION
WARNING: Check all carbon shafts for cracks or other
damage before shooting. Although Beman shafts are the
most durable and strongest carbon shafts produced, they
Adhesive Compatibility Test
are not made with a reinforcing aluminum core (like X10,
A/C/E and A/C/C shafts). As a result, any carbon shaft
Here is a simple test to determine if the nock adhesive
is more susceptible to cracking or breaking if the arrow
you wish to use is compatible with the various nock
hits a hard object or is hit by another arrow. All styles of
materials.
carbon shafts should be checked for cracking after each
1. Choose a nock as a test sample.
shot.
2. Apply a small amount of the adhesive you intend to
use on the nock shank and spread the adhesive evenly Procedure
around the shank. Grip the shaft with one hand near the point and the other
3. Let the nock set for approximately ten minutes. near the fletching. Rotate the arrow while bending it
4. Grip the nock with a pair of pliers at the top portion between the hands. If it feels flexible (rubbery), makes a
of the nock (the part that fits outside the arrow). See creaking sound, or rotates strangely, do not shoot the
the illustration below. arrow again.
5. Press the nock shank against a flat table surface and try
to bend the nock shank to a 45(cid:176) angle. Any carbon arrow that has cracked and is more flexible
6. If the nock shank will bend without breaking, as when twisted than a new arrow, could fracture upon
shown in the illustration below, then the adhesive is release of the string (especially when shot from a high-
compatible with the nock. If the nock shank breaks, energy compound bow) and seriously injure the shooter.
do not use the adhesive. Hunting Precautions
There is always a possibility that an arrow shaft used in
1. Spread adhesive to be tested on shank of nock: bowhunting will break after being shot into a big-game
2. Wait 10 minutes. Then Grip the nock with pliers. animal. If a carbon arrow breaks, it tends to shatter and
produce many sharp, splinter-like carbon fragments.
These fragments could be harmful if ingested, so when
game is recovered, the hunter should always carefully
determine whether the arrow has broken inside the
animal. If the arrow has broken, follow the instructions
below:
3. Press the nock against a flat
surface. Try to bend the nock 1. Use extreme caution when removing broken seg-
at a 45(cid:176) angle. If the nock ments of the carbon arrow shaft.
shank breaks, do not use the 2. When field dressing game animals, use care to avoid
adhesive.
splinters of carbon fiber.
3. Carefully remove the flesh in the area of the wounds.
Securing Screw-in Points It may contain carbon fibers, particularly at the entry
and exit points.
Due to the impact of the arrow, points may get loose 4. Thoroughly clean the surrounding area of the wound
during shooting. Grip the point with pliers and grip the and inspect for carbon fragments.
shaft with a rubber shaft gripper to tighten the point. An 5. Carefully dispose of any meat that might contain
alternate method is to screw in the points with a small dab carbon splinters.
of Easton hot melt adhesive.
MORE GREAT TECHNICAL STUFF FROM EASTON
SLOW MOTION VIDEO(cid:209)Watch arrows fly in super slow motion. Shot at an incredible 7,000 frames per second,
you can see the answers to all your questions about arrow rests, fingers vs. mechanical release, vanes vs. feathers, etc.
COMPUTER PROGRAMS(cid:209)Easton(cid:213)s Shaft Selector (cid:210)Plus(cid:211) lets you go through Easton(cid:213)s Selection Charts at electronic
speed. Easton(cid:213)s Arrow Flight Simulator lets you try new setups with computer simulations. Over 99% accurate! You can
find your bow(cid:213)s best arrow match, find the fastest setup to meet each set of tournament rules, or try out a new set of
arrow shafts to use with your favorite broadheads. All without going to the range!
ARCHER(cid:213)S ALMANAC(cid:209)The most complete archery reference manual available. Everything from how-to and
where-to information from the nation(cid:213)s top archers to in-depth detail about equipment specifications, graphics that
reveal your own arrow trajectory, charts that show changes in velocity as bow weight changes, and lots more!
For more information call or write Easton. The address and phone number are on the back page of this manual.
31
Additional Information
Minimum Recommended Arrow damage to and/or breakage of bows and therefore help
prevent injury to archers.
Weight
Bows with machined risers have become popular since
At the request of the bow manufacturers, AMO devel- this testing was performed. Due to their added strength,
oped the Minimum Recommended Arrow Weight chart they may be able to shoot lighter arrows. How much
because breakage of high-energy bows has resulted from lighter, if any, has not yet been determined.
using arrows that are too light. The recommended mini-
Using the Minimum Recommended Arrow
mum arrow weights were determined from tests per-
Weight chart
formed on various brands of bows with cast metal risers.
After determining the safe amount of energy left in the ¥ Select the column that describes the type of bow you
bow (23-28 ft./lbs.) when a 360-grain arrow is shot from shoot.
a 60# speed cam compound bow at a 30" AMO Draw ¥ Move down that column to locate the bow weight
Length, the arrow weights for all other draw lengths and range that includes your Peak Bow Weight.
bow weights were calculated using this safe (cid:210)retained ¥ Move horizontally across that row to your (cid:210)AMO
energy(cid:211) figure. Using arrow weights equal to or heavier Draw Length(cid:211) column.
than those recommended will reduce the possibility of ¥ The box at that location contains the minimum total
arrow weight1 recommended for your equipment.
AMO MINIMUM RECOMMENDED
ARROW WEIGHTS1 (GRAINS)
S.E.*=.95 S.E.*=1.04 S.E.*=1.20 S.E.*=1.3+
P.D.F. P.D.F. P.D.F. P.D.F.
E.S.E. 62 E.S.E. 65.6 E.S.E. 71.3 E.S.E. 75.1
B.H. 9.5 B.H. 9.0 B.H. 8.0 B.H. 7.0
1 Arrow weight includes all arrow components(cid:209)shaft, insert, point, fletching and nock.
* Based on: ¥ 360 Grain Arrow ¥ 30" Draw Length ¥ 60# Peak Weight ¥ Speed Cam
S.E. = Stored Energy, P.D.F. = Peak Draw Force,
E.S.E. = Energy Storage Efficiency, B.H. = Brace Height,
**Draw Length
NOTE: AMO Draw Length is not necessarily the same
as your Correct Arrow Length. AMO Draw Length
equals the distance from the bottom of the nock groove
to the pivot point of the grip + 13(cid:218) " while at full draw 4
position. This distance is approximately the distance
from the bottom of the nock groove to the far side of the
bow. Correct Arrow Length is measured from the nock
groove to the end of the shaft. If you draw the end of the
arrow flush with the far side of your bow, arrow length
and draw length are approximately the same. If the end
EVRUCER
DNUOR LEEHW
YGRENE
LEEHW
)maC
tfoS(
DEEPS
MAC
)maC
draH(
IMPORTANT: The lengths shown in the chart below are (cid:210)Draw Lengths,(cid:211) not arrow lengths.
ACTUAL PEAK BOW WEIGHT (LBS.)
AMO Draw
Length = A + 13/4"
13/4" Pivot point to bottom of nock groove = A
AMO DRAW LENGTH **
25" 26" 27" 28" 29" 30" 31" 32" 33"
33 32 29 27 150 150 150 150 150 150 150 150 150
34-41 33-38 30-35 28-32 150 150 150 150 150 150 150 151 165
42-46 39-43 36-39 33-36 150 150 150 150 150 163 179 195 211
47-52 44-49 40-44 37-41 150 150 150 167 185 203 222 240 258
53-58 50-54 45-49 42-46 150 163 183 203 224 244 264 285 305
59-63 55-60 50-54 47-50 172 195 217 240 262 284 307 329 352
64-69 61-64 55-59 51-55 202 227 251 276 300 325 350 374 399
70-75 65-71 60-64 56-60 232 259 286 312 339 365 392 419 445
76-81 72-76 65-70 61-65 262 291 320 348 377 406 435 463 492
82-86 77-81 71-74 66-69 292 323 354 385 416 446 477 508 539
87-92 82-87 75-79 70-74 322 355 388 421 454 487 520 553 586
93-99 88-94 80-85 75-80 352 387 422 457 492 532 581 629 676
of your arrow is in front of the far side of your bow, or if
you pull the end of your arrow inside the far side of your
bow or use an overdraw, Draw Length and Correct
Arrow Length will not be the same. You must use AMO
Draw Length when using the AMO Minimum Recom-
mended Arrow Weight chart above as this AMO Draw
length determines the energy your bow has stored at full
draw. Use Correct Arrow Length when using the Easton
Shaft Size Selection charts.
32
Arrow Tuning and Maintenance Guide
F.O.C. (Front of Center) portion of the arrow. Replacing vanes with feathers
lightens the rear of the arrow. Various points, inserts, and
The term F.O.C. (Front of Center) describes the even added weights are used to modify the weight of the
percentage of the arrow(cid:213)s total weight that is located in front of the arrow.
the front half of the arrow. The more weight that is
Even though there is no established perfect F.O.C. for
located in the front half of the arrow, the more forward
each setup, there are some general recommendations
is the center of balance of the arrow. Why is this important?
that provide a good starting point when either constructing
It is generally believed that the F.O.C. balance position
a set of arrows or when analyzing an arrow(cid:213)s flight
of the arrow is one of the more important elements
characteristics.
affecting the shape of the arrow(cid:213)s trajectory curve.
F.O.C. Recommendations
Unfortunately there are too many variables affecting the
path of an arrow to make it possible to precalculate the Aluminum Target Arrows 7-9 %
trajectory of an arrow simply by controlling its F.O.C.. A/C/C Target Arrows 9-11 %
Some archers, though, find it valuable to determine and
A/C/E Target Arrows 11-16 %
record the F.O.C. of their arrows once they have achieved
the flight characteristics they desire. Hunting Arrows 10-15 %
The importance of F.O.C. is greatest in archery events Use the following formula to calculate the exact F.O.C.
that emphasize long range shooting. FITA archery of an arrow.
(Olympic Style) which requires archers to shoot up to 90
meters is the best example of this.
Determining F.O.C.%
In short range events, such as indoor archery, the effect
of F.O.C. is not significant. Other factors affecting arrow
flight are more important to these archers. AMO-Standard F.O.C. balance formula
Changes in the trajectory of an arrow, for whatever F.O.C. % = 100 x (A-L/2)
L
reason, are quite apparent in archery events or bowhunting
L = Correct Arrow Length(cid:209)Distance from bottom of nock
conditions that call for shots to be made at both short and
groove to end of shaft
long ranges. Bows for these situations usually include the A = Distance from bottom of nock groove to finished arrow
use of multiple sight pins or multiple premarked sight balance position (includes weight of point
[+ insert], nock system and fletching)
settings. Since changing the F.O.C. of an arrow may
change the shape of its trajectory, it may also change the
L = Correct Arrow Length
preset sight locations on the bow sight. Center of
Correct Arrow Length
F.O.C. 1/2 Length = L/2
F.O.C. Guidelines Distance
The balance of an arrow can be modified by adding
weight to either the front or the rear of the shaft. Heavier Front-of-Center balance position
of the finished arrow
vanes, for example, increase the weight of the rear
A
5040 W. HAROLD GATTY DR. SALT LAKE CITY, UT
84116-2897 U.S.A. (801) 539-1400 FAX (801) 533-9907
Rev. 4, 4/99
Printed on Recycled Paper